# See test-data/binaries/README
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/bin-aarch64-dynamic
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/bin-armv7-dynamic
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/bin-i586-dynamic
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/bin-ia64-dynamic
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/bin-mipsel-dynamic
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/bin-ppc64-dynamic
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/bin-ppc64le-dynamic
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/bin-riscv64-dynamic
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/bin-s390x-dynamic
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/bin-sparc-dynamic
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/bin-x86_64-dynamic
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/lib-aarch64.so
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/lib-armv7.so
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/lib-i586.so
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/lib-ia64.so
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/lib-mipsel.so
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/lib-ppc64le.so
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/lib-ppc64.so
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/lib-riscv64.so
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/lib-s390x.so
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/lib-sparc.so
libguestfs source: source-is-missing test-data/binaries/lib-x86_64.so
