
=head1 名前

guestfish - ゲスト・ファイルシステム・シェル

=head1 書式

 guestfish [--options] [commands]

 guestfish

 guestfish [--ro|--rw] -a disk.img

 guestfish [--ro|--rw] -a disk.img -m dev[:mountpoint]

 guestfish -d libvirt-domain

 guestfish [--ro|--rw] -a disk.img -i

 guestfish -d libvirt-domain -i

=head1 警告

guestfish を読み書きモードで動作中の仮想マシンにおいて使用すると、 ディスク破損を引き起こす可能性があり、非常に危険です。
ディスクイメージまたは仮想マシンが動作中である場合、 安全に guestfish を使用するために I<--ro> (読み込み専用)
オプションを使用します。

=head1 説明

guestfish は仮想マシンのファイルシステムを検査および変更するために 使用するシェルおよびコマンドラインツールです。 これは
libguestfs を使用し、 guestfs API のすべての機能を提供します。 詳細は L<guestfs(3)> を参照してください。

guestfish は、シェルスクリプト、コマンドライン、対話式シェルから libguestfs API への構造的なアクセスを提供します。
壊れた仮想マシンイメージを救出したい場合、 L<virt-rescue(1)> コマンドを考えてください。

=head1 例

=head2 対話式シェルとして

 $ guestfish
 
guestfish へようこそ。仮想マシンのファイルシステムを
編集するためのゲスト・ファイルシステム・シェルです。
 入力: コマンド一覧の表示は 'help'
       マニュアルの参照は 'man'
       シェルの終了は 'quit'
 
 ><fs> add-ro disk.img
 ><fs> run
 ><fs> list-filesystems
 /dev/sda1: ext4
 /dev/vg_guest/lv_root: ext4
 /dev/vg_guest/lv_swap: swap
 ><fs> mount /dev/vg_guest/lv_root /
 ><fs> cat /etc/fstab
 # /etc/fstab
 # Created by anaconda
 [...]
 ><fs> exit

=head2 シェルスクリプトから

仮想マシンまたはディスクイメージに新しい C</etc/motd> ファイルを作成します:

 guestfish <<_EOF_
 add disk.img
 run
 mount /dev/vg_guest/lv_root /
 write /etc/motd "Welcome, new users"
 _EOF_

ディスクイメージにある LVM 論理ボリュームを一覧表示します:

 guestfish -a disk.img --ro <<_EOF_
 run
 lvs
 _EOF_

ディスクイメージにあるファイルシステムをすべて一覧表示します:

 guestfish -a disk.img --ro <<_EOF_
 run
 list-filesystems
 _EOF_

=head2 コマンドライン 1 行において

仮想マシンの C</etc/resolv.conf> を更新します:

 guestfish \
   add disk.img : run : mount /dev/vg_guest/lv_root / : \
   write /etc/resolv.conf "nameserver 1.2.3.4"

C</boot/grub/grub.conf> を対話的に編集します:

 guestfish --rw --add disk.img \
   --mount /dev/vg_guest/lv_root \
   --mount /dev/sda1:/boot \
   edit /boot/grub/grub.conf

=head2 ディスクを自動的にマウントします

仮想マシンからディスクを自動的にマウントするには I<-i> オプションを使用します:

 guestfish --ro -a disk.img -i cat /etc/group

 guestfish --ro -d libvirt-domain -i cat /etc/group

次のように対話的に C</boot/grub/grub.conf> を編集することもできます:

 guestfish --rw -a disk.img -i edit /boot/grub/grub.conf

=head2 スクリプトのインタープリターとして

ext2 フォーマット済みパーティションを含む 100MB ディスクを作成します:

 #!/usr/bin/guestfish -f
 sparse test1.img 100M
 run
 part-disk /dev/sda mbr
 mkfs ext2 /dev/sda1

=head2 準備済みディスクを用いた起動

一つの ext2 フォーマット済みパーティションを含む C<test1.img> という 100MB ディスクを作成するもう一つの方法:

 guestfish -N fs

利用可能なものを一覧表示する方法:

 guestfish -N help | less

=head2 リモートドライブ

SSH を使用してリモートディスクにアクセスします:

 guestfish -a ssh://example.com/path/to/disk.img

=head2 リモート制御

 eval "`guestfish --listen`"
 guestfish --remote add-ro disk.img
 guestfish --remote run
 guestfish --remote lvs

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<--help>

オプションの一般的なヘルプを表示します。

=item B<-h>

=item B<--cmd-help>

すべての利用可能な guestfish コマンドを一覧表示します。

=item B<-h cmd>

=item B<--cmd-help cmd>

単一のコマンド C<cmd> の詳細なヘルプを表示します。

=item B<-a image>

=item B<--add image>

ブロックデバイスまたは仮想マシンイメージをシェルに追加します。

ディスクイメージの形式は自動検知されます。 これを上書きして強制的に特定の形式を使用する場合、 I<--format=..> オプションを使用します。

このフラグを使用することは C<add> コマンドを使用することとほぼ同じです。 I<--ro>
フラグが指定された場合、C<readonly:true> と同じです。 I<--format=...>
フラグが指定された場合、C<format:...> と同じです。

=item B<-a URI>

=item B<--add URI>

リモートディスクを追加します。 L</リモートストレージの追加> 参照。

=item B<-c URI>

=item B<--connect URI>

 I<-d> オプションと同時に使用するとき、 これは使用する libvirt URI を指定します。 標準状態で標準の libvirt
接続を使用します。

=item B<--csh>

I<--listen> オプションと csh 系シェルを使用している場合、 このオプションを使用します。 以下の L</リモート制御と csh>
のセクションを参照してください。

=item B<-d libvirt-domain>

=item B<--domain libvirt-domain>

名前付き libvirt 仮想マシンからディスクを追加します。 I<--ro> オプションも使用されている場合、すべての libvirt
仮想マシンを使用できます。 しかしながら、書き込みモードでは、 停止状態の libvirt 仮想マシンのみ指定できます。

名前の代わりに仮想マシンの UUID を使用できます。

このフラグを使用することは、C<add-domain> コマンドを使用することとほぼ同等です。 I<--ro>
フラグを指定した場合、C<readonly:true> が付きます。 I<--format=...> フラグを指定した場合、C<format:...>
が付きます。

=item B<--echo-keys>

キーやパスフレーズを入力するとき、通常 guestfish はエコーを無効化します。 そのため、入力内容を確認できません。 テンペスト攻撃の心配がなく、
部屋に誰も居なければ、 入力内容を確認するためにこのフラグを指定できます。

=item B<-f file>

=item B<--file file>

C<file> からコマンドを読み込みます。 純粋な guestfish スクリプトを書く場合、以下を使用します:

 #!/usr/bin/guestfish -f

=item B<--format=raw|qcow2|..>

=item B<--format>

I<-a> オプションは標準状態でディスクイメージの形式を自動検知します。 これを使用することにより、コマンドラインで後続の I<-a>
オプションのディスク形式を強制的に指定できます。 引数なしで I<--format> を使用することにより、 後続の I<-a>
オプションに対して自動検知に戻せます。

例:

 guestfish --format=raw -a disk.img

強制的に C<disk.img> を raw 形式にします (自動検出しません)。

 guestfish --format=raw -a disk.img --format -a another.img

強制的に C<disk.img> を raw 形式にし (自動検知なし)、 C<another.img> に対して自動検知に戻します。

仮想マシンのディスクイメージが信頼できない raw 形式である場合、 ディスク形式を指定するためにこのオプションを使用すべきです。
これにより、悪意のある仮想マシンにより起こり得る セキュリティ問題を回避できます (CVE-2010-3851)。 L</add> 参照。

=item B<-i>

=item B<--inspector>

L<virt-inspector(1)> コードを使用すると、 オペレーティングシステムを判定するためにディスクを検査します。
また、実際の仮想マシンにマウントすることと同じように ファイルシステムをマウントします。

一般的な使用法は次のどちらかです:

 guestfish -d myguest -i

(I<myguest> という停止状態の libvirt 仮想マシンの場合)、または:

 guestfish --ro -d myguest -i

(動作中の仮想マシンの場合、読み込み専用)、 またはブロックデバイスを直接指定します:

 guestfish --rw -a /dev/Guests/MyGuest -i

コマンドライン構文が古いバージョンの guestfish から少し変更されたことに注意してください。 まだ古い構文を使用することができます:

 guestfish [--ro] -i disk.img

 guestfish [--ro] -i libvirt-domain

このフラグを使用することは、 C<inspect-os> コマンドを使用することとほぼ同じです。 検出されたファイルシステムをマウントするために
他のコマンドを使用します。

=item B<--keys-from-stdin>

標準入力からキーまたはパスフレーズのパラメーターを読み込みます。 標準で C</dev/tty> を開いているユーザーから読み込もうとします。

=item B<--listen>

バックグラウンドにフォークし、リモートコマンドをリッスンします。 以下の L</guestfish のソケット経由のリモート制御 > 参照。

=item B<--live>

動作中の仮想マシンに接続します。 (実験的、L<guestfs(3)/ATTACHING TO RUNNING DAEMONS> 参照)。

=item B<-m dev[:mountpoint[:options[:fstype]]]>

=item B<--mount dev[:mountpoint[:options[:fstype]]]>

指定されたマウントポイントにある、 名前付きパーティションまたは論理ボリュームをマウントします。

マウントポイントが省略された場合、標準で C</> になります。

多くのコマンドは動作させる前に、何かを C</> にマウントする必要があります。

何らかの I<-m> または I<--mount> オプションが指定されると、 仮想マシンが自動的に起動されます。

仮想マシンのディスクイメージに含まれるファイルシステムが不明な場合、 guestfish をこのオプションなしで実行することもできます。
そうすると、利用可能なパーティション、ファイルシステム、 論理ボリューム (LVM) の一覧が表示されます (L</list-partitions>,
L</list-filesystems>, L</lvs> コマンド参照)。 または、 L<virt-filesystems(1)>
コマンドを使用することもできます。

マウントパラメーターの三番目の (ほとんど使用されない) 項目は、 バックエンドのファイルシステムをマウントするために使用される
マウントオプションの一覧です。 これが指定されていない場合、 マウントオプションは空文字列または C<ro> (I<--ro>
フラグが使用されている場合) になります。

 -m /dev/sda1:/:acl,user_xattr

このフラグを使用することは、 C<mount-options> コマンドを使用することと同等です。

パラメーターの四番目の項目は使用するファイルシステムドライバー (C<ext3> や C<ntfs> など) です。 これはほとんど必要ありません。
しかし、複数のドライバーがファイルシステムに対して有効である場合 (例: C<ext2> と C<ext3>)、 または libguestfs
がファイルシステムを誤検知している場合、 これは有用です。

=item B<--network>

仮想マシンにおいて QEMU のユーザーモードのネットワークを有効にします。

=item B<-N [filename=]type>

=item B<--new [filename=]type>

=item B<-N help>

"type" としてフォーマットされた新しいディスクイメージを準備します。 これは I<-a> オプションの代わりになります。 I<-a>
は既存のディスクを追加するのに対して、 I<-N> はファイルシステムの準備済みディスクを作成し、追加します。 以下の L</準備済みディスクイメージ>
を参照してください。

=item B<-n>

=item B<--no-sync>

自動同期を無効化します。 これは標準で有効化されています。 L<guestfs(3)> マニュアルページの自動同期に関する記載を 参照してください。

=item B<--no-dest-paths>

ゲストのファイルシステムのパスをタブ補完しません。 この機能は、ゲストのファイルシステムのパスを補完する ためにタブキーを使えるようになり、有用です。
しかし、別の「隠し」guestfs コールを呼び出す可能性があります。 そのため、この機能を無効化するために、このオプションがあります。

=item B<--pipe-error>

コマンドのパイプ (以下の L</パイプ> 参照) への書き込みに失敗した場合、 このコマンドがエラーを返します。

標準状態では、(歴史的な理由から) そのようなエラーは次のために無視されます。

 ><fs> command_with_lots_of_output | head

エラーは渡されません。

=item B<--progress-bars>

guestfish が非対話式モードを使用している場合でも、 進行状況バーを有効にします。

guestfish を対話式シェルで使用するとき、 進行状況バーが標準で有効になっています。

=item B<--no-progress-bars>

進行状況バーを無効にします。

=item B<--remote[=pid]>

リモートコマンドを C<$GUESTFISH_PID> または C<pid> に送信します。 以下の L</guestfish
のソケット経由のリモート制御 > 参照。

=item B<-r>

=item B<--ro>

ディスクが追加され、読み込み専用でマウントされるよう、 I<-a>, I<-d>, I<-m> オプションを変更します。

ディスクイメージまたは仮想マシンが使用中の場合、 必ずこのオプションを使用する必要があります。 また、ディスクへの書き込みアクセスが不要な場合、
このオプションが一般的に推奨されます。

I<-N> オプションで作成された準備済みディスクイメージは、 このオプションの効果がないことに注意してください。 C<add>
のようなコマンドも影響を受けません。 必要があれば、C<readonly:true> オプションを明示的に指定する必要があります。

以下の L</OPENING DISKS FOR READ AND WRITE> 参照。

=item B<--selinux>

仮想マシンに対して SELinux を有効にします。 L<guestfs(3)> の SELinux 参照。

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

非常に冗長なメッセージを出力します。  バグを探す場合、とくに有用です。

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

guestfish / libguestfs のバージョン番号を表示して、終了します。

=item B<-w>

=item B<--rw>

ディスクが追加され、読み書き可能でマウントされるよう、 I<-a>, I<-d>, I<-m> オプションを変更します。

以下の L</OPENING DISKS FOR READ AND WRITE> 参照。

=item B<-x>

各コマンドを実行する前にエコーします。

=back

=head1 コマンドラインにおけるコマンド

Any additional (non-option) arguments are treated as commands to execute.

Commands to execute should be separated by a colon (C<:>), where the colon
is a separate parameter.  Thus:

 guestfish cmd [args...] : cmd [args...] : cmd [args...] ...

If there are no additional arguments, then we enter a shell, either an
interactive shell with a prompt (if the input is a terminal) or a
non-interactive shell.

In either command line mode or non-interactive shell, the first command that
gives an error causes the whole shell to exit.  In interactive mode (with a
prompt) if a command fails, you can continue to enter commands.

=head1 launch (または run) の使用法

As with L<guestfs(3)>, you must first configure your guest by adding disks,
then launch it, then mount any disks you need, and finally issue
actions/commands.  So the general order of the day is:

=over 4

=item *

add or -a/--add

=item *

launch (別名 run)

=item *

mount または -m/--mount

=item *

any other commands

=back

C<run> is a synonym for C<launch>.  You must C<launch> (or C<run>)  your
guest before mounting or performing any other commands.

The only exception is that if any of the I<-i>, I<-m>, I<--mount>, I<-N> or
I<--new> options were given then C<run> is done automatically, simply
because guestfish can't perform the action you asked for without doing this.

=head1 OPENING DISKS FOR READ AND WRITE

The guestfish, L<guestmount(1)> and L<virt-rescue(1)> options I<--ro> and
I<--rw> affect whether the other command line options I<-a>, I<-c>, I<-d>,
I<-i> and I<-m> open disk images read-only or for writing.

In libguestfs E<le> 1.10, guestfish, guestmount and virt-rescue defaulted to
opening disk images supplied on the command line for write.  To open a disk
image read-only you have to do I<-a image --ro>.

This matters: If you accidentally open a live VM disk image writable then
you will cause irreversible disk corruption.

In a future libguestfs we intend to change the default the other way.  Disk
images will be opened read-only.  You will have to either specify
I<guestfish --rw>, I<guestmount --rw>, I<virt-rescue --rw>, or change the
configuration file in order to get write access for disk images specified by
those other command line options.

This version of guestfish, guestmount and virt-rescue has a I<--rw> option
which does nothing (it is already the default).  However it is highly
recommended that you use this option to indicate that you need write access,
and prepare your scripts for the day when this option will be required for
write access.

B<Note:> This does I<not> affect commands like L</add> and L</mount>, or any
other libguestfs program apart from guestfish and guestmount.

=head1 QUOTING

You can quote ordinary parameters using either single or double quotes.  For
example:

 add "file with a space.img"

 rm '/file name'

 rm '/"'

A few commands require a list of strings to be passed.  For these, use a
whitespace-separated list, enclosed in quotes.  Strings containing
whitespace to be passed through must be enclosed in single quotes.  A
literal single quote must be escaped with a backslash.

 vgcreate VG "/dev/sda1 /dev/sdb1"
 command "/bin/echo 'foo      bar'"
 command "/bin/echo \'foo\'"

=head2 ESCAPE SEQUENCES IN DOUBLE QUOTED ARGUMENTS

In double-quoted arguments (only) use backslash to insert special
characters:

=over 4

=item C<\a>

アラート（ベル）文字。

=item C<\b>

バックスペース文字。

=item C<\f>

フォームフィード文字。

=item C<\n>

改行文字。

=item C<\r>

復帰文字。

=item C<\t>

水平タブ文字。

=item C<\v>

垂直タブ文字。

=item C<\">

二重引用符文字。

=item C<\ooo>

8 進値 I<ooo> を持つ文字。（C とは異なり）ちょうど 3 桁である必要があります。

=item C<\xhh>

16 進数値 I<hh> を持つ文字。ちょうど 2 桁である必要があります。

In the current implementation C<\000> and C<\x00> cannot be used in strings.

=item C<\\>

文字としてのバックスラッシュ文字。

=back

=head1 オプション引数

Some commands take optional arguments.  These arguments appear in this
documentation as C<[argname:..]>.  You can use them as in these examples:

 add filename

 add filename readonly:true

 add filename format:qcow2 readonly:false

Each optional argument can appear at most once.  All optional arguments must
appear after the required ones.

=head1 数値

このセクションはパラメーターとして整数を取り得るすべてのコマンドに適用されます。

=head2 容量の接尾辞

コマンドがバイト単位で計算されるパラメーターをとるとき、キロバイト、メガバイト、それより大きい容量を指定するために、以下の接尾辞のどれかをとることができます:

=over 4

=item B<k> または B<K> または B<KiB>

キロ（1024 の掛け算）バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<KB>

国際単位系（SI）の 1000 バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<M> または B<MiB>

メガ（1048576 の掛け算）バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<MB>

国際単位系（SI）の 1000000 バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<G> または B<GiB>

ギガ（2 の 30 乗の掛け算）バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<GB>

国際単位系（SI）の 10 の 9 乗バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<T> または B<TiB>

テラ（2 の 40 乗の掛け算）バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<TB>

国際単位系（SI）の 10 の 12 乗バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<P> または B<PiB>

ペタ（2 の 50 乗の掛け算）バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<PB>

国際単位系（SI）の 10 の 15 乗バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<E> または B<EiB>

エクサ（2 の 60 乗の掛け算）バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<EB>

国際単位系（SI）の 10 の 18 乗バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<Z> または B<ZiB>

ゼタ（2 の 70 乗の掛け算）バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<ZB>

国際単位系（SI）の 10 の 21 乗バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<Y> または B<YiB>

ヨタ（2 の 80 乗の掛け算）バイト単位の容量です。

=item B<YB>

国際単位系（SI）の 10 の 24 乗バイト単位の容量です。

=back

例:

 truncate-size /file 1G

ファイルを 1 ギガバイトに切り詰めます。

いくつかのコマンドはキロバイトまたはメガバイト単位の容量をとるので注意してください (たとえば、L</memsize>
のパラメーターはすでにメガバイト単位で指定されています)。接尾辞をつけることにより、期待しない結果になることがあります。

=head2 10 進数値および 16 進数値

For specifying the radix (base) use the C convention: C<0> to prefix an
octal number or C<0x> to prefix a hexadecimal number.  For example:

 1234      10 進数 1234
 02322     8 進数、10 進数の 1234
 0x4d2     16 進数、10 進数の 1234

When using the C<chmod> command, you almost always want to specify an octal
number for the mode, and you must prefix it with C<0> (unlike the Unix
L<chmod(1)> program):

 chmod 0777 /public  # 正解
 chmod 777 /public   # 誤り! このモードは 10 進 777 = 8 進 01411 です。

Commands that return numbers usually print them in decimal, but some
commands print numbers in other radices (eg. C<umask> prints the mode in
octal, preceded by C<0>).

=head1 ワイルドカードおよびグロブ

Neither guestfish nor the underlying guestfs API performs wildcard expansion
(globbing) by default.  So for example the following will not do what you
expect:

 rm-rf /home/*

Assuming you don't have a directory called literally C</home/*> then the
above command will return an error.

ワイルドカードの展開を実行するには C<glob> コマンドを使用します。

 glob rm-rf /home/*

runs C<rm-rf> on each path that matches (ie. potentially running the command
many times), equivalent to:

 rm-rf /home/jim
 rm-rf /home/joe
 rm-rf /home/mary

C<glob> only works on simple guest paths and not on device names.

If you have several parameters, each containing a wildcard, then glob will
perform a Cartesian product.

=head1 コメント

Any line which starts with a I<#> character is treated as a comment and
ignored.  The I<#> can optionally be preceded by whitespace, but B<not> by a
command.  For example:

 # これはコメントです
         # これはコメントです
 foo # コメントではありません

空行も無視されます。

=head1 ローカルのコマンドの実行法

Any line which starts with a I<!> character is treated as a command sent to
the local shell (C</bin/sh> or whatever L<system(3)> uses).  For example:

 !mkdir local
 tgz-out /remote local/remote-data.tar.gz

will create a directory C<local> on the host, and then export the contents
of C</remote> on the mounted filesystem to C<local/remote-data.tar.gz>.
(See C<tgz-out>).

To change the local directory, use the C<lcd> command.  C<!cd> will have no
effect, due to the way that subprocesses work in Unix.

=head2 LOCAL COMMANDS WITH INLINE EXECUTION

If a line starts with I<E<lt>!> then the shell command is executed (as for
I<!>), but subsequently any output (stdout) of the shell command is parsed
and executed as guestfish commands.

Thus you can use shell script to construct arbitrary guestfish commands
which are then parsed by guestfish.

For example it is tedious to create a sequence of files (eg. C</foo.1>
through C</foo.100>) using guestfish commands alone.  However this is simple
if we use a shell script to create the guestfish commands for us:

 <! for n in `seq 1 100`; do echo write /foo.$n $n; done

or with names like C</foo.001>:

 <! for n in `seq 1 100`; do printf "write /foo.%03d %d\n" $n $n; done

When using guestfish interactively it can be helpful to just run the shell
script first (ie. remove the initial C<E<lt>> character so it is just an
ordinary I<!> local command), see what guestfish commands it would run, and
when you are happy with those prepend the C<E<lt>> character to run the
guestfish commands for real.

=head1 パイプ

Use C<command E<lt>spaceE<gt> | command> to pipe the output of the first
command (a guestfish command) to the second command (any host command).  For
example:

 cat /etc/passwd | awk -F: '$3 == 0 { print }'

(where C<cat> is the guestfish cat command, but C<awk> is the host awk
program).  The above command would list all accounts in the guest filesystem
which have UID 0, ie. root accounts including backdoors.  Other examples:

 hexdump /bin/ls | head
 list-devices | tail -1
 tgz-out / - | tar ztf -

The space before the pipe symbol is required, any space after the pipe
symbol is optional.  Everything after the pipe symbol is just passed
straight to the host shell, so it can contain redirections, globs and
anything else that makes sense on the host side.

To use a literal argument which begins with a pipe symbol, you have to quote
it, eg:

 echo "|"

=head1 ホームディレクトリ

If a parameter starts with the character C<~> then the tilde may be expanded
as a home directory path (either C<~> for the current user's home directory,
or C<~user> for another user).

Note that home directory expansion happens for users known I<on the host>,
not in the guest filesystem.

To use a literal argument which begins with a tilde, you have to quote it,
eg:

 echo "~"

=head1 暗号化ディスク

Libguestfs has some support for Linux guests encrypted according to the
Linux Unified Key Setup (LUKS) standard, which includes nearly all whole
disk encryption systems used by modern Linux guests.  Currently only
LVM-on-LUKS is supported.

Identify encrypted block devices and partitions using L</vfs-type>:

 ><fs> vfs-type /dev/sda2
 crypto_LUKS

Then open those devices using L</luks-open>.  This creates a device-mapper
device called C</dev/mapper/luksdev>.

 ><fs> luks-open /dev/sda2 luksdev
 Enter key or passphrase ("key"): <パスフレーズを入力してください>

Finally you have to tell LVM to scan for volume groups on the newly created
mapper device:

 vgscan
 vg-activate-all true

The logical volume(s) can now be mounted in the usual way.

Before closing a LUKS device you must unmount any logical volumes on it and
deactivate the volume groups by calling C<vg-activate false VG> on each
one.  Then you can close the mapper device:

 vg-activate false /dev/VG
 luks-close /dev/mapper/luksdev

=head1 Windows のパス

If a path is prefixed with C<win:> then you can use Windows-style drive
letters and paths (with some limitations).  The following commands are
equivalent:

 file /WINDOWS/system32/config/system.LOG

 file win:\windows\system32\config\system.log

 file WIN:C:\Windows\SYSTEM32\CONFIG\SYSTEM.LOG

The parameter is rewritten "behind the scenes" by looking up the position
where the drive is mounted, prepending that to the path, changing all
backslash characters to forward slash, then resolving the result using
L</case-sensitive-path>.  For example if the E: drive was mounted on C</e>
then the parameter might be rewritten like this:

 win:e:\foo\bar => /e/FOO/bar

This only works in argument positions that expect a path.

=head1 ファイルのアップロード方法およびダウンロード方法

For commands such as C<upload>, C<download>, C<tar-in>, C<tar-out> and
others which upload from or download to a local file, you can use the
special filename C<-> to mean "from stdin" or "to stdout".  For example:

 upload - /foo

reads stdin and creates from that a file C</foo> in the disk image, and:

 tar-out /etc - | tar tf -

writes the tarball to stdout and then pipes that into the external "tar"
command (see L</PIPES>).

When using C<-> to read from stdin, the input is read up to the end of
stdin.  You can also use a special "heredoc"-like syntax to read up to some
arbitrary end marker:

 upload -<<END /foo
 input line 1
 input line 2
 input line 3
 END

Any string of characters can be used instead of C<END>.  The end marker must
appear on a line of its own, without any preceding or following characters
(not even spaces).

Note that the C<-E<lt>E<lt>> syntax only applies to parameters used to
upload local files (so-called "FileIn" parameters in the generator).

=head1 EXIT ON ERROR BEHAVIOUR

By default, guestfish will ignore any errors when in interactive mode
(ie. taking commands from a human over a tty), and will exit on the first
error in non-interactive mode (scripts, commands given on the command line).

If you prefix a command with a I<-> character, then that command will not
cause guestfish to exit, even if that (one) command returns an error.

=head1 guestfish のソケット経由のリモート制御

Guestfish can be remote-controlled over a socket.  This is useful
particularly in shell scripts where you want to make several different
changes to a filesystem, but you don't want the overhead of starting up a
guestfish process each time.

Start a guestfish server process using:

 eval "`guestfish --listen`"

and then send it commands by doing:

 guestfish --remote cmd [...]

To cause the server to exit, send it the exit command:

 guestfish --remote exit

Note that the server will normally exit if there is an error in a command.
You can change this in the usual way.  See section L</EXIT ON ERROR
BEHAVIOUR>.

=head2 CONTROLLING MULTIPLE GUESTFISH PROCESSES

The C<eval> statement sets the environment variable C<$GUESTFISH_PID>, which
is how the I<--remote> option knows where to send the commands.  You can
have several guestfish listener processes running using:

 eval "`guestfish --listen`"
 pid1=$GUESTFISH_PID
 eval "`guestfish --listen`"
 pid2=$GUESTFISH_PID
 ...
 guestfish --remote=$pid1 cmd
 guestfish --remote=$pid2 cmd

=head2 REMOTE CONTROL AND CSH

csh 系のシェル (csh, tcsh など) を使用するとき、I<--csh> オプションを追加する必要があります:

 eval "`guestfish --listen --csh`"

=head2 リモート制御の詳細

Remote control happens over a Unix domain socket called
C</tmp/.guestfish-$UID/socket-$PID>, where C<$UID> is the effective user ID
of the process, and C<$PID> is the process ID of the server.

Guestfish client and server versions must match exactly.

Older versions of guestfish were vulnerable to CVE-2013-4419 (see
L<guestfs(3)/CVE-2013-4419>).  This is fixed in the current version.

=head2 USING REMOTE CONTROL ROBUSTLY FROM SHELL SCRIPTS

From Bash, you can use the following code which creates a guestfish
instance, correctly quotes the command line, handles failure to start, and
cleans up guestfish when the script exits:

 #!/bin/bash -
 
 set -e
 
 guestfish[0]="guestfish"
 guestfish[1]="--listen"
 guestfish[2]="--ro"
 guestfish[3]="-a"
 guestfish[4]="disk.img"
 
 GUESTFISH_PID=
 eval $("${guestfish[@]}")
 if [ -z "$GUESTFISH_PID" ]; then
     echo "error: guestfish didn't start up, see error messages above"
     exit 1
 fi
 
 cleanup_guestfish ()
 {
     guestfish --remote -- exit >/dev/null 2>&1 ||:
 }
 trap cleanup_guestfish EXIT ERR
 
 guestfish --remote -- run
 
 # ...

=head2 REMOTE CONTROL DOES NOT WORK WITH I<-a> ETC. OPTIONS

Options such as I<-a>, I<--add>, I<-N>, I<--new> etc don't interact properly
with remote support.  They are processed locally, and not sent through to
the remote guestfish.  In particular this won't do what you expect:

 guestfish --remote --add disk.img

Don't use these options.  Use the equivalent commands instead, eg:

 guestfish --remote add-drive disk.img

または:

 guestfish --remote
 ><fs> add disk.img

=head2 REMOTE CONTROL RUN COMMAND HANGING

Using the C<run> (or C<launch>) command remotely in a command substitution
context hangs, ie. don't do (note the backquotes):

 a=`guestfish --remote run`

Since the C<run> command produces no output on stdout, this is not useful
anyway.  For further information see
L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=592910>.

=head1 PREPARED DISK IMAGES

Use the I<-N [filename=]type> or I<--new [filename=]type> parameter to
select one of a set of preformatted disk images that guestfish can make for
you to save typing.  This is particularly useful for testing purposes.  This
option is used instead of the I<-a> option, and like I<-a> can appear
multiple times (and can be mixed with I<-a>).

The new disk is called C<test1.img> for the first I<-N>, C<test2.img> for
the second and so on.  Existing files in the current directory are
I<overwritten>.  You can use a different filename by specifying C<filename=>
before the type (see examples below).

The type briefly describes how the disk should be sized, partitioned, how
filesystem(s) should be created, and how content should be added.
Optionally the type can be followed by extra parameters, separated by C<:>
(colon) characters.  For example, I<-N fs> creates a default 100MB,
sparsely-allocated disk, containing a single partition, with the partition
formatted as ext2.  I<-N fs:ext4:1G> is the same, but for an ext4 filesystem
on a 1GB disk instead.

Note that the prepared filesystem is not mounted.  You would usually have to
use the C<mount /dev/sda1 /> command or add the I<-m /dev/sda1> option.

If any I<-N> or I<--new> options are given, the libguestfs appliance is
automatically launched.

=head2 例

Create a 100MB disk with an ext4-formatted partition, called C<test1.img> in
the current directory:

 guestfish -N fs:ext4

VFAT フォーマットのパーティションを持つ 32MB ディスクを作成して、マウントします:

 guestfish -N fs:vfat:32M -m /dev/sda1

200MB の空ディスクを作成します:

 guestfish -N disk:200M

Create a blank 200MB disk called C<blankdisk.img> (instead of C<test1.img>):

 guestfish -N blankdisk.img=disk:200M

__PREPOPTS__

=head1 ADDING REMOTE STORAGE

I<For API-level documentation on this topic, see
L<guestfs(3)/guestfs_add_drive_opts> and L<guestfs(3)/REMOTE STORAGE>>.

On the command line, you can use the I<-a> option to add network block
devices using a URI-style format, for example:

 guestfish -a ssh://root@example.com/disk.img

URIs I<cannot> be used with the L</add> command.  The equivalent command
using the API directly is:

 ><fs> add /disk.img protocol:ssh server:tcp:example.com username:root

The possible I<-a URI> formats are described below.

=head2 B<-a disk.img>

=head2 B<-a file:///path/to/disk.img>

Add the local disk image (or device) called C<disk.img>.

=head2 B<-a ftp://[user@]example.com[:port]/disk.img>

=head2 B<-a ftps://[user@]example.com[:port]/disk.img>

=head2 B<-a http://[user@]example.com[:port]/disk.img>

=head2 B<-a https://[user@]example.com[:port]/disk.img>

=head2 B<-a tftp://[user@]example.com[:port]/disk.img>

Add a disk located on a remote FTP, HTTP or TFTP server.

The equivalent API command would be:

 ><fs> add /disk.img protocol:(ftp|...) server:tcp:example.com

=head2 B<-a gluster://example.com[:port]/volname/image>

Add a disk image located on GlusterFS storage.

The server is the one running C<glusterd>, and may be C<localhost>.

The equivalent API command would be:

 ><fs> add volname/image protocol:gluster server:tcp:example.com

=head2 B<-a iscsi://example.com[:port]/target-iqn-name[/lun]>

Add a disk located on an iSCSI server.

The equivalent API command would be:

 ><fs> add target-iqn-name/lun protocol:iscsi server:tcp:example.com

=head2 B<-a nbd://example.com[:port]>

=head2 B<-a nbd://example.com[:port]/exportname>

=head2 B<-a nbd://?socket=/socket>

=head2 B<-a nbd:///exportname?socket=/socket>

Add a disk located on Network Block Device (nbd) storage.

The I</exportname> part of the URI specifies an NBD export name, but is
usually left empty.

The optional I<?socket> parameter can be used to specify a Unix domain
socket that we talk to the NBD server over.  Note that you cannot mix server
name (ie. TCP/IP) and socket path.

The equivalent API command would be (no export name):

 ><fs> add "" protocol:nbd server:[tcp:example.com|unix:/socket]

=head2 B<-a rbd:///pool/disk>

=head2 B<-a rbd://example.com[:port]/pool/disk>

Add a disk image located on a Ceph (RBD/librbd) storage volume.

Although libguestfs and Ceph supports multiple servers, only a single server
can be specified when using this URI syntax.

The equivalent API command would be:

 ><fs> add pool/disk protocol:rbd server:tcp:example.com:port

=head2 B<-a sheepdog://[example.com[:port]]/volume/image>

Add a disk image located on a Sheepdog volume.

The server name is optional.  Although libguestfs and Sheepdog supports
multiple servers, only at most one server can be specified when using this
URI syntax.

The equivalent API command would be:

 ><fs> add volume protocol:sheepdog [server:tcp:example.com]

=head2 B<-a ssh://[user@]example.com[:port]/disk.img>

Add a disk image located on a remote server, accessed using the Secure Shell
(ssh) SFTP protocol.  SFTP is supported out of the box by all major SSH
servers.

The equivalent API command would be:

 ><fs> add /disk protocol:ssh server:tcp:example.com [username:user]

=head1 進行状況バー

Some (not all) long-running commands send progress notification messages as
they are running.  Guestfish turns these messages into progress bars.

When a command that supports progress bars takes longer than two seconds to
run, and if progress bars are enabled, then you will see one appearing below
the command:

 ><fs> copy-size /large-file /another-file 2048M
 / 10% [#####-----------------------------------------] 00:30

The spinner on the left hand side moves round once for every progress
notification received from the backend.  This is a (reasonably) golden
assurance that the command is "doing something" even if the progress bar is
not moving, because the command is able to send the progress notifications.
When the bar reaches 100% and the command finishes, the spinner disappears.

Progress bars are enabled by default when guestfish is used interactively.
You can enable them even for non-interactive modes using I<--progress-bars>,
and you can disable them completely using I<--no-progress-bars>.

=head1 PROMPT

You can change or add colours to the default prompt (C<E<gt>E<lt>fsE<gt>>)
by setting the C<GUESTFISH_PS1> environment variable.  A second string
(C<GUESTFISH_OUTPUT>) is printed after the command has been entered and
before the output, allowing you to control the colour of the output.  A
third string (C<GUESTFISH_INIT>)  is printed before the welcome message,
allowing you to control the colour of that message.  A fourth string
(C<GUESTFISH_RESTORE>) is printed before guestfish exits.

A simple prompt can be set by setting C<GUESTFISH_PS1> to an alternate
string:

 $ GUESTFISH_PS1='(type a command) '
 $ export GUESTFISH_PS1
 $ guestfish
 [...]
 (type a command) ▂

You can also use special escape sequences, as described in the table below:

=over 4

=item \\

文字としてのバックスラッシュ文字。

=item \[

=item \]

(These should only be used in C<GUESTFISH_PS1>.)

Place non-printing characters (eg. terminal control codes for colours)
between C<\[...\]>.  What this does it to tell the L<readline(3)> library
that it should treat this subsequence as zero-width, so that command-line
redisplay, editing etc works.

=item \a

ベル文字。

=item \e

ASCII ESC (エスケープ) 文字。

=item \n

改行。

=item \r

復帰。

=item \NNN

コードの8 進値が NNN の ASCII 文字。

=item \xNN

コードの 16 進値が NN の ASCII 文字。

=back

=head2 EXAMPLES OF PROMPTS

Note these these require a terminal that supports ANSI escape codes.

=over 4

=item *

 GUESTFISH_PS1='\[\e[1;30m\]><fs>\[\e[0;30m\] '

A bold black version of the ordinary prompt.

=item *

 GUESTFISH_PS1='\[\e[1;32m\]><fs>\[\e[0;31m\] '
 GUESTFISH_OUTPUT='\e[0;30m'
 GUESTFISH_RESTORE="$GUESTFISH_OUTPUT"
 GUESTFISH_INIT='\e[1;34m'

Blue welcome text, green prompt, red commands, black command output.

=back

=head1 WINDOWS 8

Windows 8 "fast startup" can prevent guestfish from mounting NTFS
partitions.  See L<guestfs(3)/WINDOWS HIBERNATION AND WINDOWS 8 FAST
STARTUP>.

=head1 guestfish コマンド

The commands in this section are guestfish convenience commands, in other
words, they are not part of the L<guestfs(3)> API.

=head2 help

 help
 help cmd

Without any parameter, this provides general help.

With a C<cmd> parameter, this displays detailed help for that command.

=head2 exit

=head2 quit

これは guestfish を終了します。C<^D> キーを使用することもできます。

__FISH_COMMANDS__

=head1 コマンド

__ACTIONS__

=head1 終了ステータス

コマンドがエラーなく完了すると、guestfish は 0 を返します。エラーがあると 1 を返します。

=head1 環境変数

=over 4

=item EDITOR

C<edit> コマンドはエディターとして C<$EDITOR> を使用します。設定されていないと、C<vi> を使用します。

=item FEBOOTSTRAP_KERNEL

=item FEBOOTSTRAP_MODULES

When using supermin E<ge> 4.1.0, these have been renamed L</SUPERMIN_KERNEL>
and L</SUPERMIN_MODULES>.

=item GUESTFISH_DISPLAY_IMAGE

The C<display> command uses C<$GUESTFISH_DISPLAY_IMAGE> to display images.
If not set, it uses L<display(1)>.

=item GUESTFISH_INIT

Printed when guestfish starts.  See L</PROMPT>.

=item GUESTFISH_OUTPUT

Printed before guestfish output.  See L</PROMPT>.

=item GUESTFISH_PID

Used with the I<--remote> option to specify the remote guestfish process to
control.  See section L</REMOTE CONTROL GUESTFISH OVER A SOCKET>.

=item GUESTFISH_PS1

Set the command prompt.  See L</PROMPT>.

=item GUESTFISH_RESTORE

Printed before guestfish exits.  See L</PROMPT>.

=item HEXEDITOR

The L</hexedit> command uses C<$HEXEDITOR> as the external hex editor.  If
not specified, the external L<hexedit(1)> program is used.

=item HOME

GNU readline のサポート付きでコンパイルしていると、ホームディレクトリーにあるさまざまなファイルを使用できます。 L</ファイル> 参照。

=item LIBGUESTFS_APPEND

仮想マシンのカーネルに追加のオプションを渡します。

=item LIBGUESTFS_ATTACH_METHOD

This is the old way to set C<LIBGUESTFS_BACKEND>.

=item LIBGUESTFS_BACKEND

Choose the default way to create the appliance.  See
L<guestfs(3)/guestfs_set_backend>.

=item LIBGUESTFS_BACKEND_SETTINGS

A colon-separated list of backend-specific settings.  See
L<guestfs(3)/BACKEND>, L<guestfs(3)/BACKEND SETTINGS>.

=item LIBGUESTFS_CACHEDIR

The location where libguestfs will cache its appliance, when using a
supermin appliance.  The appliance is cached and shared between all handles
which have the same effective user ID.

If C<LIBGUESTFS_CACHEDIR> is not set, then C<TMPDIR> is used.  If C<TMPDIR>
is not set, then C</var/tmp> is used.

See also L</LIBGUESTFS_TMPDIR>, L</set-cachedir>.

=item LIBGUESTFS_DEBUG

Set C<LIBGUESTFS_DEBUG=1> to enable verbose messages.  This has the same
effect as using the B<-v> option.

=item LIBGUESTFS_HV

Set the default hypervisor (usually qemu) binary that libguestfs uses.  If
not set, then the qemu which was found at compile time by the configure
script is used.

=item LIBGUESTFS_MEMSIZE

Set the memory allocated to the qemu process, in megabytes.  For example:

 LIBGUESTFS_MEMSIZE=700

=item LIBGUESTFS_PATH

Set the path that guestfish uses to search for kernel and initrd.img.  See
the discussion of paths in L<guestfs(3)>.

=item LIBGUESTFS_QEMU

This is the old way to set C<LIBGUESTFS_HV>.

=item LIBGUESTFS_TMPDIR

The location where libguestfs will store temporary files used by each
handle.

If C<LIBGUESTFS_TMPDIR> is not set, then C<TMPDIR> is used.  If C<TMPDIR> is
not set, then C</tmp> is used.

See also L</LIBGUESTFS_CACHEDIR>, L</set-tmpdir>.

=item LIBGUESTFS_TRACE

コマンドトレースを有効にするには C<LIBGUESTFS_TRACE=1> を設定してください。

=item PAGER

The C<more> command uses C<$PAGER> as the pager.  If not set, it uses
C<more>.

=item パス

Libguestfs and guestfish may run some external programs, and rely on
C<$PATH> being set to a reasonable value.  If using the libvirt backend,
libvirt will not work at all unless C<$PATH> contains the path of qemu/KVM.

=item SUPERMIN_KERNEL

=item SUPERMIN_MODULES

These two environment variables allow the kernel that libguestfs uses in the
appliance to be selected.  If C<$SUPERMIN_KERNEL> is not set, then the most
recent host kernel is chosen.  For more information about kernel selection,
see L<supermin(1)>.  This feature is only available in supermin /
febootstrap E<ge> 3.8.

=item TMPDIR

See L</LIBGUESTFS_CACHEDIR>, L</LIBGUESTFS_TMPDIR>.

=back

=head1 ファイル

=over 4

=item $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/libguestfs/libguestfs-tools.conf

=item $HOME/.libguestfs-tools.rc

=item $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/libguestfs/libguestfs-tools.conf

=item /etc/libguestfs-tools.conf

This configuration file controls the default read-only or read-write mode
(I<--ro> or I<--rw>).

See L<libguestfs-tools.conf(5)>.

=item $HOME/.guestfish

GNU readline のサポート付きでコンパイルされていると、コマンドの履歴がこのファイルに保存されます。

=item $HOME/.inputrc

=item /etc/inputrc

GNU readline のサポート付きでコンパイルされていると、これらのファイルが readline を設定するために使用されます。  詳細は
L<readline(3)/INITIALIZATION FILE> を参照してください。

To write rules which only apply to guestfish, use:

 $if guestfish
 ...
 $endif

Variables that you can set in inputrc that change the behaviour of guestfish
in useful ways include:

=over 4

=item completion-ignore-case (初期値: on)

By default, guestfish will ignore case when tab-completing paths on the
disk.  Use:

 set completion-ignore-case off

guestfish が大文字小文字を区別するようになります。

=back

=item test1.img

=item test2.img (etc)

When using the I<-N> or I<--new> option, the prepared disk or filesystem
will be created in the file C<test1.img> in the current directory.  The
second use of I<-N> will use C<test2.img> and so on.  Any existing file with
the same name will be overwritten.  You can use a different filename by
using the C<filename=> prefix.

=back

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfs(3)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>, L<virt-alignment-scan(1)>,
L<virt-builder(1)>, L<virt-cat(1)>, L<virt-copy-in(1)>, L<virt-copy-out(1)>,
L<virt-customize(1)>, L<virt-df(1)>, L<virt-diff(1)>, L<virt-edit(1)>,
L<virt-filesystems(1)>, L<virt-inspector(1)>, L<virt-list-filesystems(1)>,
L<virt-list-partitions(1)>, L<virt-log(1)>, L<virt-ls(1)>,
L<virt-make-fs(1)>, L<virt-p2v(1)>, L<virt-rescue(1)>, L<virt-resize(1)>,
L<virt-sparsify(1)>, L<virt-sysprep(1)>, L<virt-tar(1)>, L<virt-tar-in(1)>,
L<virt-tar-out(1)>, L<virt-v2v(1)>, L<virt-win-reg(1)>,
L<libguestfs-tools.conf(5)>, L<display(1)>, L<hexedit(1)>, L<supermin(1)>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2014 Red Hat Inc.

