=encoding utf8

=head1 名前

guestfs-erlang - Erlang から libguestfs を使用する方法

=head1 書式

 {ok, G} = guestfs:create(),
 ok = guestfs:add_drive_opts(G, Disk,
                             [{format, "raw"}, {readonly, true}]),
 ok = guestfs:launch(G),
 [Device] = guestfs:list_devices(G),
 ok = guestfs:close(G).

=head1 説明

This manual page documents how to call libguestfs from the Erlang
programming language.  This page just documents the differences from the C
API and gives some examples.  If you are not familiar with using libguestfs,
you also need to read L<guestfs(3)>.

=head2 OPENING AND CLOSING THE HANDLE

The Erlang bindings are implemented using an external program called
C<erl-guestfs>.  This program must be on the current PATH, or else you
should specify the full path to the program:

 {ok, G} = guestfs:create().

 {ok, G} = guestfs:create("/path/to/erl-guestfs").

C<G> is the libguestfs handle which you should pass to other functions.

ハンドルを閉じるには:

 ok = guestfs:close(G).

=head2 FUNCTIONS WITH OPTIONAL ARGUMENTS

For functions that take optional arguments, the first arguments are the
non-optional ones.  The last argument is a list of tuples supplying the
remaining optional arguments.

 ok = guestfs:add_drive_opts(G, Disk,
                             [{format, "raw"}, {readonly, true}]).

最後の引数が空の一覧ならば、それを省略できます:

 ok = guestfs:add_drive_opts(G, Disk).

=head2 返り値およびエラー

On success, most functions return a C<Result> term (which could be a list,
string, tuple etc.).  If there is nothing for the function to return, then
the atom C<ok> is returned.

エラーが発生すると、以下の組のどれかが表示されます:

=over 4

=item C<{error, Msg, Errno}>

これは関数からの通常のエラーを意味します。

C<Msg> はエラーメッセージ（文字列）です。C<Errno> は Unix エラー（整数）です。

C<Errno> は 0 の可能性があります。 L<guestfs(3)/guestfs_last_errno> 参照。

=item C<{unknown, Function}>

This indicates that the function you called is not known.  Generally this
means you are mixing C<erl-guestfs> from another version of libguestfs,
which you should not do.

C<Function> は未知の関数の名前です。

=item C<{unknownarg, Arg}>

This indicates that you called a function with optional arguments, with an
unknown argument name.

C<Arg> is the name of the unknown argument.

=back

=head1 例 1: ディスクイメージの作成

@EXAMPLE1@

=head1 例 2: 仮想マシンのディスクイメージの検査

@EXAMPLE2@

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfs-examples(3)>, L<guestfs-java(3)>,
L<guestfs-ocaml(3)>, L<guestfs-perl(3)>, L<guestfs-python(3)>,
L<guestfs-recipes(1)>, L<guestfs-ruby(3)>, L<http://www.erlang.org/>.
L<http://libguestfs.org/>。

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Red Hat Inc.

