
=head1 名前

guestfsd - guestfs デーモン

=head1 書式

 guestfsd [-r] [-v|--verbose]

=head1 説明

C<guestfsd> は libguestfs
デーモンです。一般ユーザーはこのプログラムを明示的に実行する必要がありません。このマニュアルページは、C<guestfsd> が libguestfs
アプライアンスにおいて、および libguestfs ライブにおいて実行することを説明しています。

=head2 libguestfs アプライアンス

libguestfs アプライアンスのアーキテクチャーは L<guestfs(3)/アーキテクチャー> を参照してください。

After the appliance boots, the F</init> script in the appliance starts
C<guestfsd> with no arguments.  C<guestfsd> opens the virtio-serial port on
a known path (see L</FILES>).  It initiates the protocol (see
L<guestfs(3)/COMMUNICATION PROTOCOL>) and processes requests one at a time
from the library until the appliance is destroyed.

Filesystems are mounted under F</sysroot> and all filesystem operations
happen relative to this directory.

=head2 LIBGUESTFS LIVE

In the libguestfs live case, C<guestfsd -r> is started from the rc-scripts,
systemd, etc.

The C<-r> option causes the daemon to operate on the root filesystem instead
of F</sysroot>.

Currently (because of limitations in virtio-serial) only one client can
connect at a time, and C<guestfsd> must be restarted after each client
disconnects.  If libguestfs live were changed to use a different transport
such as TCP/IP then this limitation could be removed.

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<-?>

=item B<--help>

簡単なヘルプを表示します。

=item B<-r>

Set the root filesystem to be F</> (instead of the default which is
F</sysroot>).  Also do not unmount filesystems when the daemon exits.

This option is used to enable libguestfs live.

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

デバッグ用の冗長なメッセージを有効にします。

The verbose flag is also set if the Linux command line contains the
substring C<guestfs_verbose=1>.

=back

=head1 終了ステータス

このプログラムは、成功すると 0 を、エラーがあると 0 以外を返します。

=head1 ファイル

=over 4

=item F</dev/virtio-ports/org.libguestfs.channel.0>

C<guestfsd> が接続する virtio シリアルポート。

=item F</proc/cmdline>

The Linux command line is parsed to discover C<guestfs_*> flags.  The
following flags are understood:

=over 4

=item B<guestfs_verbose=1>

Enable verbose messages.  This flag is passed by the libguestfs library to
the appliance to make the daemon more verbose (it acts like the I<-v> flag
on the command line).  Unrelated to the daemon, it also causes the appliance
init script to print out a lot more debugging information.

=item B<guestfs_channel=PATH>

Set the path to the virtio-serial channel to something other than the
default (which is F</dev/virtio-ports/org.libguestfs.channel.0>).  This is
used by the User-Mode Linux backend to use a regular emulated serial port
instead of virtio-serial.

=item B<guestfs_network=1>

This is set if the appliance network is enabled (see
C<guestfs_set_network>).

=back

=back

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfs(3)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2015 Red Hat Inc.

