=encoding utf8

=head1 名前

guestfs-ocaml - OCaml から libguestfs を使用する方法

=head1 書式

モジュール形式:

 let g = Guestfs.create () in
 Guestfs.add_drive_opts g ~format:"raw" ~readonly:true "disk.img";
 Guestfs.launch g;

オブジェクト指向スタイル:

 let g = new Guestfs.guestfs () in
 g#add_drive_opts ~format:"raw" ~readonly:true "disk.img";
 g#launch ();

 ocamlfind opt prog.ml -package guestfs -linkpkg -o prog
or:
 ocamlopt -I +guestfs mlguestfs.cmxa prog.ml -o prog

=head1 説明

This manual page documents how to call libguestfs from the OCaml programming
language.  This page just documents the differences from the C API and gives
some examples.  If you are not familiar with using libguestfs, you also need
to read L<guestfs(3)>.

=head2 プログラミング形式

There are two different programming styles supported by the OCaml bindings.
You can use a module style, with each C function mapped to an OCaml
function:

 int guestfs_set_verbose (guestfs_h *g, int flag);

becomes:

 val Guestfs.set_verbose : Guestfs.t -> bool -> unit

Alternately you can use an object-oriented style, calling methods on the
class C<Guestfs.guestfs>:

 method set_verbose : bool -> unit

The object-oriented style is usually briefer, and the minor performance
penalty isn't noticeable in the general overhead of performing libguestfs
functions.

=head2 ハンドルの閉じ方

The handle is closed when it is reaped by the garbage collector.  Because
libguestfs handles include a lot of state, it is also possible to close (and
hence free) them explicitly by calling C<Guestfs.close> or the C<#close>
method.

=head2 例外

Errors from libguestfs functions are mapped into the C<Guestfs.Error>
exception.  This has a single parameter which is the error message (a
string).

Calling any function/method on a closed handle raises
C<Guestfs.Handle_closed>.  The single parameter is the name of the function
that you called.

=head1 例 1: ディスクイメージの作成

@EXAMPLE1@

=head1 例 2: 仮想マシンのディスクイメージの検査

@EXAMPLE2@

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfs-examples(3)>, L<guestfs-erlang(3)>,
L<guestfs-java(3)>, L<guestfs-perl(3)>, L<guestfs-python(3)>,
L<guestfs-recipes(1)>, L<guestfs-ruby(3)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>,
L<http://caml.inria.fr/>。

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Red Hat Inc.

