=encoding utf8

=head1 名前

guestmount - Mount a guest filesystem on the host using FUSE and libguestfs

=head1 書式

 guestmount [--options] -a disk.img -m device [--ro] mountpoint

 guestmount [--options] -a disk.img -i [--ro] mountpoint

 guestmount [--options] -d Guest -i [--ro] mountpoint

=head1 警告

You must I<not> use C<guestmount> in read-write mode on live virtual
machines.  If you do this, you risk disk corruption in the VM.

=head1 説明

The guestmount program can be used to mount virtual machine filesystems and
other disk images on the host.  It uses libguestfs for access to the guest
filesystem, and FUSE (the "filesystem in userspace") to make it appear as a
mountable device.

Along with other options, you have to give at least one device (I<-a>
option) or libvirt domain (I<-d> option), and at least one mountpoint (I<-m>
option) or use the I<-i> inspection option or the I<--live> option.  How
this works is better explained in the L<guestfish(1)> manual page, or by
looking at the examples below.

FUSE lets you mount filesystems as non-root.  The mountpoint must be owned
by you, and the filesystem will not be visible to any other users unless you
make certain global configuration changes to C</etc/fuse.conf>.  To unmount
the filesystem, use the L<guestunmount(1)> command.

=head1 例

For a typical Windows guest which has its main filesystem on the first
partition:

 guestmount -a windows.img -m /dev/sda1 --ro /mnt

For a typical Linux guest which has a /boot filesystem on the first
partition, and the root filesystem on a logical volume:

 guestmount -a linux.img -m /dev/VG/LV -m /dev/sda1:/boot --ro /mnt

To get libguestfs to detect guest mountpoints for you:

 guestmount -a guest.img -i --ro /mnt

For a libvirt guest called "Guest" you could do:

 guestmount -d Guest -i --ro /mnt

If you don't know what filesystems are contained in a guest or disk image,
use L<virt-filesystems(1)> first:

 virt-filesystems -d MyGuest

If you want to trace the libguestfs calls but without excessive debugging
information, we recommend:

 guestmount [...] --trace /mnt

If you want to debug the program, we recommend:

 guestmount [...] --trace --verbose /mnt

To unmount the filesystem after using it:

 guestunmount /mnt

=head1 注記

=head2 他のユーザーは標準でファイルシステムを参照できません。

If you mount a filesystem as one user (eg. root), then other users will not
be able to see it by default.  The fix is to add the FUSE C<allow_other>
option when mounting:

 sudo guestmount [...] -o allow_other /mnt

=head2 Enabling FUSE

On some distros, you may need to add yourself to a special group
(eg. C<fuse>) before you can use any FUSE filesystem.  This is necessary on
Debian and derivatives.

On other distros, no special group is required.  It is not necessary on
Fedora or Red Hat Enterprise Linux.

=head2 fusermount エラー: "デバイスまたはリソースがビジーです"

You can see this error when another process on the system jumps into the
mountpoint you have just created, holding it open and preventing you from
unmounting it.  The usual culprits are various GUI "indexing" programs.

The popular workaround for this problem is to retry the C<fusermount -u>
command a few times until it works (L<guestunmount(1)> does this for you).
Unfortunately this isn't a reliable fix if (for example)  the mounted
filesystem is particularly large and the intruding program particularly
persistent.

A proper fix is to use a private mountpoint by creating a new mount
namespace using the Linux-specific L<clone(2)>/L<unshare(2)> flag
C<CLONE_NEWNS>.  Unfortunately at the moment this requires root and we would
also probably need to add it as a feature to guestmount.

=head2 Race conditions possible when shutting down the connection

When L<guestunmount(1)>/L<fusermount(1)> exits, guestmount may still be
running and cleaning up the mountpoint.  The disk image will not be fully
finalized.

This means that scripts like the following have a nasty race condition:

 guestmount -a disk.img -i /mnt
 # copy things into /mnt
 guestunmount /mnt
 # immediately try to use 'disk.img' ** UNSAFE **

The solution is to use the I<--pid-file> option to write the guestmount PID
to a file, then after guestunmount spin waiting for this PID to exit.

 guestmount -a disk.img -i --pid-file guestmount.pid /mnt
 
 # ...
 # ...
 
 # Save the PID of guestmount *before* calling guestunmount.
 pid="$(cat guestmount.pid)"
 
 # Unmount the filesystem.
 guestunmount /mnt
 
 timeout=10
 
 count=$timeout
 while kill -0 "$pid" 2>/dev/null && [ $count -gt 0 ]; do
     sleep 1
     ((count--))
 done
 if [ $count -eq 0 ]; then
     echo "$0: wait for guestmount to exit failed after $timeout seconds"
     exit 1
 fi
 
 # Now it is safe to use the disk image.

Note that if you use the C<guestfs_mount_local> API directly (see
L<guestfs(3)/MOUNT LOCAL>) then it is much easier to write a safe, race-free
program.

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<-a image>

=item B<--add image>

ブロックデバイスまたは仮想マシンイメージを追加します。

ディスクイメージの形式は自動検知されます。 これを上書きして強制的に特定の形式を使用する場合、 I<--format=..> オプションを使用します。

=item B<-a URI>

=item B<--add URI>

リモートディスクを追加します。 L<guestfish(1)/リモートストレージの追加> 参照。

=item B<-c URI>

=item B<--connect URI>

 I<-d> オプションと同時に使用するとき、 これは使用する libvirt URI を指定します。 標準状態で標準の libvirt
接続を使用します。

=item B<-d libvirt-domain>

=item B<--domain libvirt-domain>

名前付き libvirt 仮想マシンからディスクを追加します。 I<--ro> オプションも使用されている場合、すべての libvirt
仮想マシンを使用できます。 しかしながら、書き込みモードでは、 停止状態の libvirt 仮想マシンのみ指定できます。

名前の代わりに仮想マシンの UUID を使用できます。

=item B<--dir-cache-timeout N>

Set the readdir cache timeout to I<N> seconds, the default being 60
seconds.  The readdir cache [actually, there are several semi-independent
caches] is populated after a readdir(2) call with the stat and extended
attributes of the files in the directory, in anticipation that they will be
requested soon after.

There is also a different attribute cache implemented by FUSE (see the FUSE
option I<-o attr_timeout>), but the FUSE cache does not anticipate future
requests, only cache existing ones.

=item B<--echo-keys>

キーやパスフレーズを入力するとき、通常 guestfish はエコーを無効化します。 そのため、入力内容を確認できません。 テンペスト攻撃の心配がなく、
部屋に誰も居なければ、 入力内容を確認するためにこのフラグを指定できます。

=item B<--format=raw|qcow2|..>

=item B<--format>

I<-a> オプションは標準状態でディスクイメージの形式を自動検知します。 これを使用することにより、コマンドラインで後続の I<-a>
オプションのディスク形式を強制的に指定できます。 引数なしで I<--format> を使用することにより、 後続の I<-a>
オプションに対して自動検知に戻せます。

仮想マシンのディスクイメージが信頼できない raw 形式である場合、 ディスク形式を指定するためにこのオプションを使用すべきです。
これにより、悪意のある仮想マシンにより起こり得る セキュリティ問題を回避できます (CVE-2010-3851)。
L</guestfs(3)/guestfs_add_drive_opts> 参照。

=item B<--fuse-help>

Display help on special FUSE options (see I<-o> below).

=item B<--help>

簡単なヘルプを表示して終了します。

=item B<-i>

=item B<--inspector>

L<virt-inspector(1)> コードを使用すると、 オペレーティングシステムを判定するためにディスクを検査します。
また、実際の仮想マシンにマウントすることと同じように ファイルシステムをマウントします。

=item B<--keys-from-stdin>

標準入力からキーまたはパスフレーズのパラメーターを読み込みます。 標準で C</dev/tty> を開いているユーザーから読み込もうとします。

=item B<--live>

動作中の仮想マシンに接続します。 (実験的、L<guestfs(3)/ATTACHING TO RUNNING DAEMONS> 参照)。

=item B<-m dev[:mountpoint[:options[:fstype]]>

=item B<--mount dev[:mountpoint[:options[:fstype]]]>

Mount the named partition or logical volume on the given mountpoint B<in the
guest> (this has nothing to do with mountpoints in the host).

If the mountpoint is omitted, it defaults to C</>.  You have to mount
something on C</>.

マウントパラメーターの三番目の (ほとんど使用されない) 項目は、 バックエンドのファイルシステムをマウントするために使用される
マウントオプションの一覧です。 これが指定されていない場合、 マウントオプションは空文字列または C<ro> (I<--ro>
フラグが使用されている場合) になります。

 -m /dev/sda1:/:acl,user_xattr

パラメーターの四番目の項目は使用するファイルシステムドライバー (C<ext3> や C<ntfs> など) です。 これはほとんど必要ありません。
しかし、複数のドライバーがファイルシステムに対して有効である場合 (例: C<ext2> と C<ext3>)、 または libguestfs
がファイルシステムを誤検知している場合、 これは有用です。

=item B<--no-fork>

Don't daemonize (or fork into the background).

=item B<-n>

=item B<--no-sync>

By default, we attempt to sync the guest disk when the FUSE mountpoint is
unmounted.  If you specify this option, then we don't attempt to sync the
disk.  See the discussion of autosync in the L<guestfs(3)> manpage.

=item B<-o option>

=item B<--option option>

追加オプションを FUSE に渡します。

To get a list of all the extra options supported by FUSE, use the command
below.  Note that only the FUSE I<-o> options can be passed, and only some
of them are a good idea.

 guestmount --fuse-help

Some potentially useful FUSE options:

=over 4

=item B<-o allow_other>

Allow other users to see the filesystem.

=item B<-o attr_timeout=N>

Enable attribute caching by FUSE, and set the timeout to I<N> seconds.

=item B<-o kernel_cache>

Allow the kernel to cache files (reduces the number of reads that have to go
through the L<guestfs(3)> API).  This is generally a good idea if you can
afford the extra memory usage.

=item B<-o uid=N> B<-o gid=N>

Use these options to map all UIDs and GIDs inside the guest filesystem to
the chosen values.

=back

=item B<--pid-file filename>

C<filename> に guestmount ワーカープロセスの PID を書き込みます。

=item B<-r>

=item B<--ro>

Add devices and mount everything read-only.  Also disallow writes and make
the disk appear read-only to FUSE.

This is highly recommended if you are not going to edit the guest disk.  If
the guest is running and this option is I<not> supplied, then there is a
strong risk of disk corruption in the guest.  We try to prevent this from
happening, but it is not always possible.

L<guestfish(1)/OPENING DISKS FOR READ AND WRITE> 参照。

=item B<--selinux>

仮想マシンの SELinux サポートを有効にします。

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

libguestfs からの冗長なメッセージを有効にします。

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

プログラムのバージョンを表示して、終了します。

=item B<-w>

=item B<--rw>

This changes the I<-a>, I<-d> and I<-m> options so that disks are added and
mounts are done read-write.

L<guestfish(1)/OPENING DISKS FOR READ AND WRITE> 参照。

=item B<-x>

=item B<--trace>

Trace libguestfs calls and entry into each FUSE function.

This also stops the daemon from forking into the background (see
I<--no-fork>).

=back

=head1 ファイル

=over 4

=item $HOME/.libguestfs-tools.rc

=item /etc/libguestfs-tools.conf

This configuration file controls the default read-only or read-write mode
(I<--ro> or I<--rw>).

See L<libguestfs-tools.conf(5)>.

=back

=head1 終了ステータス

このプログラムは、成功すると 0 を、エラーがあると 0 以外を返します。

=head1 関連項目

L<guestunmount(1)>, L<fusermount(1)>, L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-inspector(1)>,
L<virt-cat(1)>, L<virt-edit(1)>, L<virt-tar(1)>,
L<libguestfs-tools.conf(5)>, L<guestfs(3)/MOUNT LOCAL>,
L<http://libguestfs.org/>, L<http://fuse.sf.net/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2014 Red Hat Inc.

