
=head1 名前

guestfs-hacking - extending and contributing to libguestfs

=head1 説明

This manual page is for hackers who want to extend libguestfs itself.

=head2 OVERVIEW OF THE SOURCE CODE

Libguestfs source is located in the github repository
L<https://github.com/libguestfs/libguestfs>

Large amounts of boilerplate code in libguestfs (RPC, bindings,
documentation) are generated.  This means that many source files will appear
to be missing from a straightforward git checkout.  You have to run the
generator (C<./autogen.sh && make -C generator>) in order to create those
files.

Libguestfs uses an autotools-based build system, with the main files being
F<configure.ac> and F<Makefile.am>.  The F<generator> subdirectory contains
the generator, plus files describing the API.  The F<src> subdirectory
contains source for the library.  The F<appliance> and F<daemon>
subdirectories contain the source for the code that builds the appliance,
and the code that runs in the appliance respectively.  Other directories are
covered in the section L<SOURCE CODE SUBDIRECTORIES> below.

Apart from the fact that all API entry points go via some generated code,
the library is straightforward.  (In fact, even the generated code is
designed to be readable, and should be read as ordinary code).  Some actions
run entirely in the library, and are written as C functions in files under
F<src>.  Others are forwarded to the daemon where (after some generated RPC
marshalling) they appear as C functions in files under F<daemon>.

To build from source, first read the C<README> file.

=head2 F<local*> FILES

Files in the top source directory that begin with the prefix F<local*> are
ignored by git.  These files can contain local configuration or scripts that
you need to build libguestfs.

By convention, I have a file called F<localconfigure> which is a simple
wrapper around F<autogen.sh> containing local configure customizations that
I need:

 . localenv
 ./autogen.sh \
     --with-default-backend=libvirt \
     --enable-gcc-warnings \
     --enable-gtk-doc \
     -C \
     "$@"

So I can use this to build libguestfs:

 ./localconfigure && make

If there is a file in the top build directory called F<localenv>, then it
will be sourced by C<make>.  This file can contain any local environment
variables needed, eg. for skipping tests:

 # 代替の python バイナリを使用します。
 export PYTHON=python3
 # このテストを飛ばします。これは壊れています。
 export SKIP_TEST_BTRFS_FSCK=1

Note that F<localenv> is included by the top Makefile (so it's a Makefile
fragment).  But if it is also sourced by your F<localconfigure> script then
it is used as a shell script.

=head2 ADDING A NEW API ACTION

Because large amounts of boilerplate code in libguestfs are generated, this
makes it easy to extend the libguestfs API.

To add a new API action there are two changes:

=over 4

=item 1.

You need to add a description of the call (name, parameters, return type,
tests, documentation) to F<generator/actions.ml>.

There are two sorts of API action, depending on whether the call goes
through to the daemon in the appliance, or is serviced entirely by the
library (see L<guestfs-internals(3)/ARCHITECTURE>).
L<guestfs(3)/guestfs_sync> is an example of the former, since the sync is
done in the appliance.  L<guestfs(3)/guestfs_set_trace> is an example of the
latter, since a trace flag is maintained in the handle and all tracing is
done on the library side.

Most new actions are of the first type, and get added to the
C<daemon_functions> list.  Each function has a unique procedure number used
in the RPC protocol which is assigned to that action when we publish
libguestfs and cannot be reused.  Take the latest procedure number and
increment it.

For library-only actions of the second type, add to the
C<non_daemon_functions> list.  Since these functions are serviced by the
library and do not travel over the RPC mechanism to the daemon, these
functions do not need a procedure number, and so the procedure number is set
to C<-1>.

=item 2.

Implement the action (in C):

For daemon actions, implement the function C<do_E<lt>nameE<gt>> in the
C<daemon/> directory.

For library actions, implement the function C<guestfs_impl_E<lt>nameE<gt>>
(note: double underscore) in the C<src/> directory.

In either case, use another function as an example of what to do.

=back

これらの変更をした後、コンパイルするために C<make> を使用してください。

Note that you don't need to implement the RPC, language bindings, manual
pages or anything else.  It's all automatically generated from the OCaml
description.

=head2 ADDING TESTS FOR AN API ACTION

You can supply zero or as many tests as you want per API call.  The tests
can either be added as part of the API description
(F<generator/actions.ml>), or in some rarer cases you may want to drop a
script into C<tests/*/>.  Note that adding a script to C<tests/*/> is
slower, so if possible use the first method.

The following describes the test environment used when you add an API test
in F<actions.ml>.

テスト環境は 4 個のブロックデバイスを持ちます:

=over 4

=item F</dev/sda> 500MB

テスト用の一般的なブロックデバイス。

=item F</dev/sdb> 500MB

F</dev/sdb1> is an ext2 filesystem used for testing filesystem write
operations.

=item F</dev/sdc> 10MB

2 つのブロックデバイスが必要となるいくつかのテストにおいて使用されます。

=item F</dev/sdd>

ISO with fixed content (see F<images/test.iso>).

=back

To be able to run the tests in a reasonable amount of time, the libguestfs
appliance and block devices are reused between tests.  So don't try testing
L<guestfs(3)/guestfs_kill_subprocess> :-x

Each test starts with an initial scenario, selected using one of the
C<Init*> expressions, described in F<generator/types.ml>.  These initialize
the disks mentioned above in a particular way as documented in F<types.ml>.
You should not assume anything about the previous contents of other disks
that are not initialized.

You can add a prerequisite clause to any individual test.  This is a
run-time check, which, if it fails, causes the test to be skipped.  Useful
if testing a command which might not work on all variations of libguestfs
builds.  A test that has prerequisite of C<Always> means to run
unconditionally.

In addition, packagers can skip individual tests by setting environment
variables before running C<make check>.

 SKIP_TEST_<CMD>_<NUM>=1

eg: C<SKIP_TEST_COMMAND_3=1> skips test #3 of L<guestfs(3)/guestfs_command>.

または:

 SKIP_TEST_<CMD>=1

eg: C<SKIP_TEST_ZEROFREE=1> skips all L<guestfs(3)/guestfs_zerofree> tests.

Packagers can run only certain tests by setting for example:

 TEST_ONLY="vfs_type zerofree"

See F<tests/c-api/tests.c> for more details of how these environment
variables work.

=head2 DEBUGGING NEW API ACTIONS

Test new actions work before submitting them.

新しいコマンドを試すために guestfish を使うことができます。

Debugging the daemon is a problem because it runs inside a minimal
environment.  However you can fprintf messages in the daemon to stderr, and
they will show up if you use C<guestfish -v>.

=head2 ADDING A NEW LANGUAGE BINDING

All language bindings must be generated by the generator (see the
F<generator> subdirectory).

There is no documentation for this yet.  We suggest you look at an existing
binding, eg. F<generator/ocaml.ml> or F<generator/perl.ml>.

=head2 ADDING TESTS FOR LANGUAGE BINDINGS

Language bindings should come with tests.  Previously testing of language
bindings was rather ad-hoc, but we have been trying to formalize the set of
tests that every language binding should use.

Currently only the OCaml and Perl bindings actually implement the full set
of tests, and the OCaml bindings are canonical, so you should emulate what
the OCaml tests do.

This is the numbering scheme used by the tests:

 - 000+ basic tests:
 
   010  load the library
   020  create
   030  create-flags
   040  create multiple handles
   050  test setting and getting config properties
   060  explicit close
   065  implicit close (in GC'd languages)
   070  optargs
 
 - 100  launch, create partitions and LVs and filesystems
 
 - 400+ events:
 
   410  close event
   420  log messages
   430  progress messages
 
 - 800+ regression tests (specific to the language)
 
 - 900+ any other custom tests for the language

To save time when running the tests, only 100, 430, 800+, 900+ should launch
the handle.

=head2 FORMATTING CODE

Our C source code generally adheres to some basic code-formatting
conventions.  The existing code base is not totally consistent on this
front, but we do prefer that contributed code be formatted similarly.  In
short, use spaces-not-TABs for indentation, use 2 spaces for each
indentation level, and other than that, follow the K&R style.

If you use Emacs, add the following to one of one of your start-up files
(e.g., ~/.emacs), to help ensure that you get indentation right:

 ;;; In libguestfs, indent with spaces everywhere (not TABs).
 ;;; Exceptions: Makefile and ChangeLog modes.
 (add-hook 'find-file-hook
     '(lambda () (if (and buffer-file-name
                          (string-match "/libguestfs\\>"
                              (buffer-file-name))
                          (not (string-equal mode-name "Change Log"))
                          (not (string-equal mode-name "Makefile")))
                     (setq indent-tabs-mode nil))))
 
 ;;; When editing C sources in libguestfs, use this style.
 (defun libguestfs-c-mode ()
   "C mode with adjusted defaults for use with libguestfs."
   (interactive)
   (c-set-style "K&R")
   (setq c-indent-level 2)
   (setq c-basic-offset 2))
 (add-hook 'c-mode-hook
           '(lambda () (if (string-match "/libguestfs\\>"
                               (buffer-file-name))
                           (libguestfs-c-mode))))

=head2 変更のテスト方法

コンパイル時に警告を有効にします（そして、これは見つけた問題をすべて修正します）:

 ./configure --enable-gcc-warnings

有用なターゲットは次のとおりです:

=over 4

=item C<make check>

一般的なテスト群を実行します。

This is implemented using the regular automake C<TESTS> target.  See the
automake documentation for details.

=item C<make check-valgrind>

valgrind にあるテスト群のサブセットを実行します。

Any F<Makefile.am> in the tree that has a C<check-valgrind:> target will be
run by this rule.

=item C<make check-valgrind-local-guests>

ローカルにインストールされた libvirt 仮想マシン (読み込み専用) を使用して、valgrind にあるテスト群のサブセットを実行します。

=item C<make check-direct>

Runs all tests using default appliance back-end.  This only has any effect
if a non-default backend was selected using C<./configure
--with-default-backend=...>

=item C<make check-valgrind-direct>

Run a subset of the test suite under valgrind using the default appliance
back-end.

=item C<make check-uml>

Runs all tests using the User-Mode Linux backend.

As there is no standard location for the User-Mode Linux kernel, you I<have>
to set C<LIBGUESTFS_HV> to point to the kernel image, eg:

 make check-uml LIBGUESTFS_HV=~/d/linux-um/vmlinux

=item C<make check-valgrind-uml>

Runs all tests using the User-Mode Linux backend, under valgrind.

As above, you have to set C<LIBGUESTFS_HV> to point to the kernel.

=item C<make check-with-upstream-qemu>

Runs all tests using a local qemu binary.  It looks for the qemu binary in
QEMUDIR (defaults to F<$HOME/d/qemu>), but you can set this to another
directory on the command line, eg:

 make check-with-upstream-qemu QEMUDIR=/usr/src/qemu

=item C<make check-with-upstream-libvirt>

Runs all tests using a local libvirt.  This only has any effect if the
libvirt backend was selected using C<./configure
--with-default-backend=libvirt>

It looks for libvirt in LIBVIRTDIR (defaults to F<$HOME/d/libvirt>), but you
can set this to another directory on the command line, eg:

 make check-with-upstream-libvirt LIBVIRTDIR=/usr/src/libvirt

=item C<make check-slow>

Runs some slow/long-running tests which are not run by default.

Any F<Makefile.am> in the tree that has a C<check-slow:> target will be run
by this rule.

=item C<make check-all>

Equivalent to running all C<make check*> rules.

=item C<make check-release>

Runs a subset of C<make check*> rules that are required to pass before a
tarball can be released.  Currently this is:

=over 4

=item *

check

=item *

check-valgrind

=item *

check-direct

=item *

check-valgrind-direct

=item *

check-slow

=back

=item C<make installcheck>

Run C<make check> on the installed copy of libguestfs.

The version of installed libguestfs being tested, and the version of the
libguestfs source tree must be the same.

Do:

 ./autogen.sh
 make clean ||:
 make
 make installcheck

=back

=head2 DAEMON CUSTOM PRINTF FORMATTERS

In the daemon code we have created custom printf formatters C<%Q> and C<%R>,
which are used to do shell quoting.

=over 4

=item %Q

シンプルなシェルクオート文字列。すべての空白と他のシェル文字がエスケープされます。

=item %R

Same as C<%Q> except the string is treated as a path which is prefixed by
the sysroot.

=back

例:

 asprintf (&cmd, "cat %R", path);

C<cat /sysroot/some\ path\ with\ spaces> を生成します

I<Note:> Do I<not> use these when you are passing parameters to the
C<command{,r,v,rv}()> functions.  These parameters do NOT need to be quoted
because they are not passed via the shell (instead, straight to exec).  You
probably want to use the C<sysroot_path()> function however.

=head2 新しい API アクションの提出方法

パッチをメーリングリストに提出します: L<http://www.redhat.com/mailman/listinfo/libguestfs> および
L<rjones@redhat.com> (Cc)。

=head2 国際化 (i18n) サポート

We support i18n (gettext anyhow) in the library.

However many messages come from the daemon, and we don't translate those at
the moment.  One reason is that the appliance generally has all locale files
removed from it, because they take up a lot of space.  So we'd have to readd
some of those, as well as copying our PO files into the appliance.

Debugging messages are never translated, since they are intended for the
programmers.

=head2 ソースコードのサブディレクトリー

=over 4

=item F<align>

L<virt-alignment-scan(1)> のコマンドおよびドキュメント。

=item F<appliance>

libguestfs アプライアンス、スクリプトなどを構築します。

=item F<bash>

Bash tab-completion scripts.

=item F<build-aux>

autotools により使用されるさまざまなビルドスクリプト。

=item F<builder>

L<virt-builder(1)> コマンドおよびドキュメント。

=item F<cat>

The L<virt-cat(1)>, L<virt-filesystems(1)>, L<virt-log(1)> and L<virt-ls(1)>
commands and documentation.

=item F<contrib>

外部の貢献、実験的な部分です。

=item F<customize>

L<virt-customize(1)> command and documentation.

=item F<daemon>

libguestfs アプライアンスの中で実行され、アクションを実行しているデーモン。

=item F<df>

L<virt-df(1)> のコマンドおよびドキュメント。

=item F<dib>

L<virt-dib(1)> command and documentation.

=item F<diff>

L<virt-diff(1)> command and documentation.

=item F<doc>

Miscellaneous manual pages.

=item F<edit>

L<virt-edit(1)> のコマンドおよびドキュメント。

=item F<examples>

C API のコード例。

=item F<fish>

L<guestfish(1)> コマンドラインシェル、および L<virt-copy-in(1)>, L<virt-copy-out(1)>,
L<virt-tar-in(1)>, L<virt-tar-out(1)> のようなさまざまなシェルスクリプト。

=item F<format>

L<virt-format(1)> のコマンドおよびドキュメント。

=item F<fuse>

L<guestmount(1)>, libguestfs の上に組み立てられた FUSE (ユーザー空間ファイルシステム)。

=item F<generator>

The crucially important generator, used to automatically generate large
amounts of boilerplate C code for things like RPC and bindings.

=item F<get-kernel>

L<virt-get-kernel(1)> command and documentation.

=item F<gnulib>

gnulib はポートブルなライブラリとして使用されます。gnulib のコピーがこの下に含まれます。

=item F<inspector>

L<virt-inspector(1)>, 仮想マシンイメージ検査ツール。

=item F<logo>

Logo used on the website.  The fish is called Arthur by the way.

=item F<m4>

autoconf により使用される M4 マクロ。

=item F<make-fs>

L<virt-make-fs(1)> command and documentation.

=item F<mllib>

Various libraries and common code used by L<virt-resize(1)> and the other
tools which are written in OCaml.

=item F<p2v>

L<virt-p2v(1)> command, documentation and scripts for building the virt-p2v
ISO or disk image.

=item F<po>

シンプルな gettext 文字列の翻訳。

=item F<po-docs>

The build infrastructure and PO files for translations of manpages and POD
files.  Eventually this will be combined with the F<po> directory, but that
is rather complicated.

=item F<rescue>

L<virt-rescue(1)> のコマンドおよびドキュメント。

=item F<resize>

L<virt-resize(1)> のコマンドおよびドキュメント。

=item F<sparsify>

L<virt-sparsify(1)> のコマンドおよびドキュメント。

=item F<src>

C ライブラリーのソースコード。

=item F<sysprep>

L<virt-sysprep(1)> コマンドおよびドキュメント。

=item F<tests>

テストします。

=item F<test-data>

Files and other test data used by the tests.

=item F<test-tool>

エンドユーザーが QEMU/カーネルの組み合わせが libguestfs で動作するかどうかを確認するためのテストツールです。

=item F<tmp>

Used for temporary files when running the tests (instead of F</tmp> etc).
The reason is so that you can run multiple parallel tests of libguestfs
without having one set of tests overwriting the appliance created by
another.

=item F<tools>

Perl で書かれたコマンドラインツール (L<virt-win-reg(1)> および他の多くのもの)。

=item F<v2v>

L<virt-v2v(1)> command and documentation.

=item F<website>

The L<http://libguestfs.org> website files.

=item F<csharp>

=item F<erlang>

=item F<gobject>

=item F<golang>

=item F<haskell>

=item F<java>

=item F<lua>

=item F<ocaml>

=item F<php>

=item F<perl>

=item F<python>

=item F<ruby>

言語バインディング。

=back

=head2 MAKING A STABLE RELEASE

When we make a stable release, there are several steps documented here.  See
L<guestfs(3)/LIBGUESTFS VERSION NUMBERS> for general information about the
stable branch policy.

=over 4

=item *

Check C<make && make check> works on at least Fedora, Debian and Ubuntu.

=item *

Check C<./configure --without-libvirt> works.

=item *

Finalize F<guestfs-release-notes.pod>

=item *

Push and pull from Zanata.

次を実行します:

 zanata push

to push the latest POT files to Zanata.  Then run:

 ./zanata-pull.sh

which is a wrapper to pull the latest translated F<*.po> files.

=item *

Consider updating gnulib to latest upstream version.

=item *

L<http://libguestfs.org/download> の下に新しい安定版および開発版のディレクトリーを作成します。

=item *

Edit F<website/index.html.in>.

=item *

Set the version (in F<configure.ac>) to the new I<stable> version,
ie. 1.XX.0, and commit it:

 ./localconfigure
 make distclean -k
 ./localconfigure
 make && make dist
 make maintainer-commit
 make maintainer-tag

=item *

Create the stable branch in git:

 git branch stable-1.XX
 git push origin tag stable-1.XX

=item *

Do a full release of the stable branch.

=item *

Set the version to the next development version and commit that.  Optionally
do a full release of the development branch.

=back

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfs-examples(3)>, L<guestfs-internals(3)>,
L<guestfs-performance(1)>, L<guestfs-release-notes(1)>,
L<guestfs-testing(1)>, L<libguestfs-test-tool(1)>,
L<libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance(1)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2016 Red Hat Inc.

