=encoding utf8

=head1 名前

libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance - libguestfs 向け "fixed appliance"
(固定アプライアンス) を作成します

=head1 書式

 libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance [--options] OUTPUTDIR

 libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance [--options] --xz

=head1 説明

libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance により、事前に構築されたバイナリーの libguestfs
向けアプライアンスを作成できます。

B<Note that ordinary users should not need to run this tool>.

Some reasons why you I<might> want to use this include:

=over 4

=item *

You want to make a self-contained libguestfs appliance that can be copied to
another machine or platform that doesn't support L<supermin(1)>.

=item *

You have multiple users on the same machine and want to avoid the storage
duplication and start-up overhead of having multiple cached copies of the
appliance.

=item *

You want to have very predictable performance from libguestfs (see
L<guestfs-performance(1)>).

=back

For deeper understanding of why you might need this tool, read the section
L</FIXED APPLIANCE> below.

Instead of running this tool, you can download fixed appliances from
L<http://libguestfs.org/download/binaries/appliance/>.  These appliances
were made using this tool.

このツールを使用する方法が二つあります。

=over 4

=item *

出力ディレクトリーを指定します、たとえば:

 libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance /usr/local/lib/guestfs/appliance

出力ディレクトリーが存在しなければ、作成されます。4 つのファイルがこのディレクトリーに作成されます:

 <OUTPUTDIR>/kernel
 <OUTPUTDIR>/initrd
 <OUTPUTDIR>/root
 <OUTPUTDIR>/README.fixed

C<I<OUTPUTDIR>/root> はスパースなファイルのため、これをコピーするときに注意する必要があります。

You can then run libguestfs (possibly after copying this directory to
another machine) by setting the environment variable LIBGUESTFS_PATH to
C<OUTPUTDIR>.

=item *

圧縮 tar ファイルを作成する、もう一つの方法は I<--xz> オプションを使用することです:

 libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance --xz

これは呼び出した I<カレント> ディレクトリーに tar ファイルを作成します:

 appliance-<VERSION>.tar.xz

(ここで C<VERSION> は libguestfs のバージョンです)。  tar ファイルは 4 つのファイルを含みます:

 appliance/kernel
 appliance/initrd
 appliance/root
 appliance/README.fixed

C<appliance/root> はスパースファイルであるため、コピーするときには気をつける必要があるため、注意してください。

=back

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<--help>

簡単な使用法を表示して終了します。

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

バージョン番号を表示して終了します。

=item B<--xz>

Instead of creating the appliance in an output directory, create a
compressed tarball of the appliance in the current directory called
C<appliance-I<VERSION>.tar.xz> where C<VERSION> is the version of
libguestfs.

Using I<--xz> can take some time.  If working normally, the tool is
completely silent when it is running.

=back

=head1 固定アプライアンス

When libguestfs (or libguestfs tools) are run, they search a path looking
for an appliance.  The path is built into libguestfs, or can be set using
the C<LIBGUESTFS_PATH> environment variable.

Normally a supermin appliance is located on this path (see
L<supermin(1)/SUPERMIN APPLIANCE>).  libguestfs reconstructs this into a
full appliance by running C<supermin --build>.

However, a simpler "fixed appliance" can also be used.  libguestfs detects
this by looking for a directory on the path containing four files called
C<kernel>, C<initrd>, C<root> and C<README.fixed> (note the C<README.fixed>
file must be present as well).

If the fixed appliance is found, libguestfs skips supermin entirely and just
runs qemu with the kernel, initrd and root disk from the fixed appliance.

Thus the fixed appliance can be used when a platform or Linux distro does
not support supermin.  You build the fixed appliance on a platform that does
support supermin, and copy it over, and use that to run libguestfs.

=head1 ライセンス

The fixed appliance is a complete Linux binary distro.  If you distribute
it, you may need to distribute corresponding source files to remain in legal
compliance with the licenses of the software in the appliance (such as the
GNU General Public License).

=head1 終了ステータス

アプライアンスがエラーなくビルドされると、libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance は I<0> を返します。

=head1 環境変数

libguestfs に影響する環境変数の完全な一覧は L<guestfs(3)> マニュアルページを参照してください。

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfs(3)>, L<supermin(1)>, L<xz(1)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>,
L<http://qemu.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2014 Red Hat Inc.

