
=head2 B<abrt-data> *

ABRT により生成されたクラッシュデータを削除します。

C</var/spool/abrt/> に自動的に生成された ABRT クラッシュデータを削除します。

=head2 B<bash-history> *

仮想マシンにおいて bash 履歴を削除します。

ユーザー "root" および他のあらゆるユーザーのホームディレクトリーに C<.bash_history> ファイルを持つユーザーの bash
履歴を削除します。

=head3 Notes on bash-history

Currently this only looks in C</root> and C</home/*> for home directories,
so users with home directories in other locations won't have the bash
history removed.

=head2 B<blkid-tab> *

ゲストにある blkid テーブルを削除します。

=head2 B<ca-certificates>

仮想マシンにおいて CA 証明書を削除します。

=head2 B<crash-data> *

kexec-tools により生成されたクラッシュデータを削除します。

自動的に生成された kdump カーネルクラッシュデータを削除します。

=head2 B<cron-spool> *

ユーザーの at ジョブおよび cron ジョブを削除します。

=head2 B<customize> *

Customize the guest.

Customize the guest by providing L<virt-customize(1)> options for installing
packages, editing files and so on.

=head2 B<dhcp-client-state> *

DHCP クライアントのリースを削除します。

=head2 B<dhcp-server-state> *

DHCP サーバーのリースを削除します。

=head2 B<dovecot-data> *

Dovecot (メールサーバー) のデータを削除します。

=head2 B<firewall-rules>

ファイアウォールルールを削除します。

This removes custom firewall rules by removing C</etc/sysconfig/iptables> or
custom firewalld configuration in C</etc/firewalld/*/*>.

Note this is I<not> enabled by default since it may expose guests to
exploits.  Use with care.

=head2 B<flag-reconfiguration>

Flag the system for reconfiguration.

Note that this may require user intervention when the guest is booted.

=head2 B<fs-uuids>

Change filesystem UUIDs.

On guests and filesystem types where this is supported, new random UUIDs are
generated and assigned to filesystems.

=head3 Notes on fs-uuids

The fs-uuids operation is disabled by default because it does not yet find
and update all the places in the guest that use the UUIDs.  For example
C</etc/fstab> or the bootloader.  Enabling this operation is more likely
than not to make your guest unbootable.

参照: L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=991641>

=head2 B<kerberos-data>

仮想マシンにおいて Kerberos のデータを削除します。

=head2 B<logfiles> *

仮想マシンから多くのログファイルを削除します。

Linux においては以下のファイルが削除されます:

 /etc/Pegasus/*.cnf
 /etc/Pegasus/*.crt
 /etc/Pegasus/*.csr
 /etc/Pegasus/*.pem
 /etc/Pegasus/*.srl
 /root/anaconda-ks.cfg
 /root/anaconda-post.log
 /root/install.log
 /root/install.log.syslog
 /var/cache/fontconfig/*
 /var/cache/gdm/*
 /var/cache/man/*
 /var/lib/AccountService/users/*
 /var/lib/fprint/*
 /var/lib/logrotate.status
 /var/log/*.log*
 /var/log/BackupPC/LOG
 /var/log/anaconda.syslog
 /var/log/apache2/*_log
 /var/log/apache2/*_log-*
 /var/log/audit/*
 /var/log/btmp*
 /var/log/ceph/*.log
 /var/log/chrony/*.log
 /var/log/cron*
 /var/log/cups/*_log
 /var/log/dmesg*
 /var/log/gdm/*
 /var/log/glusterfs/*glusterd.vol.log
 /var/log/glusterfs/glusterfs.log
 /var/log/httpd/*log
 /var/log/jetty/jetty-console.log
 /var/log/lastlog*
 /var/log/libvirt/libvirtd.log
 /var/log/libvirt/lxc/*.log
 /var/log/libvirt/qemu/*.log
 /var/log/libvirt/uml/*.log
 /var/log/mail/*
 /var/log/maillog*
 /var/log/messages*
 /var/log/ntp
 /var/log/ntpstats/*
 /var/log/ppp/connect-errors
 /var/log/rhsm/*
 /var/log/sa/*
 /var/log/secure*
 /var/log/setroubleshoot/*.log
 /var/log/spooler*
 /var/log/squid/*.log
 /var/log/tallylog*
 /var/log/tuned/tuned.log
 /var/log/wtmp*
 /var/named/data/named.run

=head2 B<lvm-uuids> *

LVM2 の PV および VG の UUID を変更します。

LVM2 物理ボリューム (PV) またはボリュームグループ (VG) を持つ Linux 仮想マシンにおいて、新しいランダムな UUID
が生成され、これらの PV や VG に割り当てられます。

=head2 B<machine-id> *

ローカルマシン ID を削除します。

The machine ID is usually generated from a random source during system
installation and stays constant for all subsequent boots.  Optionally, for
stateless systems it is generated during runtime at boot if it is found to
be empty.

=head2 B<mail-spool> *

ローカルのメールスプールのディレクトリから電子メールを削除します。

=head2 B<net-hostname> *

ネットワークインターフェース設定にある HOSTNAME を削除します。

Fedora および Red Hat Enterprise Linux に対して、これは C<ifcfg-*> ファイルから削除されます。

=head2 B<net-hwaddr> *

HWADDR (ハードコードされた MAC アドレス) 設定を削除します。

Fedora および Red Hat Enterprise Linux に対して、これは C<ifcfg-*> ファイルから削除されます。

=head2 B<pacct-log> *

プロセス・アカウンティングのログファイルを削除します。

プロセス・アカウンティングが有効になっていると、システム全体のプロセス・アカウンティングが pacct ログファイルに保存されます。

=head2 B<package-manager-cache> *

パッケージマネージャーのキャッシュを削除します。

=head2 B<pam-data> *

ゲストにある PAM データを削除します。

=head2 B<puppet-data-log> *

Puppet のデータおよびログファイルを削除します。

=head2 B<rh-subscription-manager> *

Remove the RH subscription manager files.

=head2 B<rhn-systemid> *

RHN システム ID を削除します。

=head2 B<rpm-db> *

Remove host-specific RPM database files.

Remove host-specific RPM database files and locks.  RPM will recreate these
files automatically if needed.

=head2 B<samba-db-log> *

Samba のデータベースおよびログファイルを削除します。

=head2 B<script> *

仮想マシンに対して任意のスクリプトを実行します。

The C<script> module lets you run arbitrary shell scripts or programs
against the guest.

Note this feature requires FUSE support.  You may have to enable this in
your host, for example by adding the current user to the C<fuse> group, or
by loading a kernel module.

Use one or more I<--script> parameters to specify scripts or programs that
will be run against the guest.

The script or program is run with its current directory being the guest's
root directory, so relative paths should be used.  For example: C<rm
etc/resolv.conf> in the script would remove a Linux guest's DNS
configuration file, but C<rm /etc/resolv.conf> would (try to) remove the
host's file.

Normally a temporary mount point for the guest is used, but you can choose a
specific one by using the I<--scriptdir> parameter.

B<Note:> This is different from I<--firstboot> scripts (which run in the
context of the guest when it is booting first time).  I<--script> scripts
run on the host, not in the guest.

=head2 B<smolt-uuid> *

Smolt ハードウェア UUID を削除します。

=head2 B<ssh-hostkeys> *

仮想マシンの SSH ホストキーを削除します。

仮想マシンの次回起動時に（異なる） SSH ホストキーが再生成されます。

クローン後、仮想マシンが同じ IP アドレスを取得すると、ホストキーが変更されたという警告が ssh により表示されます:

 @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
 @    WARNING: REMOTE HOST IDENTIFICATION HAS CHANGED!     @
 @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
 IT IS POSSIBLE THAT SOMEONE IS DOING SOMETHING NASTY!

=head2 B<ssh-userdir> *

仮想マシンにある ".ssh" ディレクトリーを削除します。

ユーザー "root" 、およびホームディレクトリーに C<.ssh> ディレクトリーがある他のすべてのユーザーの、C<.ssh>
ディレクトリーを削除します。

=head3 Notes on ssh-userdir

Currently this only looks in C</root> and C</home/*> for home directories,
so users with home directories in other locations won't have the ssh files
removed.

=head2 B<sssd-db-log> *

SSSD のデータベースとログファイルを削除します。

=head2 B<tmp-files> *

一時ファイルを削除します。

これは C</tmp> と C</var/tmp> の中にある一時ファイルを削除します。

=head2 B<udev-persistent-net> *

udev persistent net ルールを削除します。

Remove udev persistent net rules which map the guest's existing MAC address
to a fixed ethernet device (eg. eth0).

仮想マシンをクローンした後、通常 MAC アドレスは変わります。古い MAC アドレスは古い名前（たとえば eth0）を占有するため、このことは新しい
MAC アドレスが新しい名前（たとえば eth1）に割り当てられることを意味します。それは、一般的に好ましくありません。 udev の永続的な net
ルールを削除することにより、これを避けます。

=head2 B<user-account>

仮想マシンにあるユーザーアカウントを削除します。

すべてのユーザーアカウントおよびそのホームディレクトリーを削除します。"root" アカウントは削除されません。

=head3 Notes on user-account

Currently this does not remove the user accounts from C</etc/shadow>.  This
is because there is no lens for the shadow password file in Augeas.

=head2 B<utmp> *

utmp ファイルを削除します。

このファイルは現在マシンにログインしているユーザーを記録します。最近の Linux
ディストリビューションは、メモリーに保存するため、仮想マシンのディスクにありません。しかし、古いディストリビューションは、ディスクに保存していました。

=head2 B<yum-uuid> *

yum UUID を削除します。

yum は元々の UUID が削除されたことを通知するとき、次の実行時に新しい UUID を作成します。

