=encoding utf8

=head1 名前

virt-ls - 仮想マシンのファイルの一覧表示

=head1 書式

 virt-ls [--options] -d domname directory [directory ...]

 virt-ls [--options] -a disk.img [-a disk.img ...] directory [directory ...]

古い形式:

 virt-ls [--options] domname directory

 virt-ls [--options] disk.img [disk.img ...] directory

=head1 説明

C<virt-ls> lists filenames, file sizes, checksums, extended attributes and
more from a virtual machine or disk image.

Multiple directory names can be given, in which case the output from each is
concatenated.

To list directories from a libvirt guest use the I<-d> option to specify the
name of the guest.  For a disk image, use the I<-a> option.

C<virt-ls> can do many simple file listings.  For more complicated cases you
may need to use L<guestfish(1)>, or write a program directly to the
L<guestfs(3)> API.

=head1 例

Get a list of all files and directories in a virtual machine:

 virt-ls -R -d guest /

List all setuid or setgid programs in a Linux virtual machine:

 virt-ls -lR -d guest / | grep '^- [42]'

Linux 仮想マシンにあるすべての全体書き込み可能なディレクトリーを一覧表示します:

 virt-ls -lR -d guest / | grep '^d ...7'

Linux 仮想マシンにあるすべての Unix ドメインソケットを一覧表示します:

 virt-ls -lR -d guest / | grep '^s'

'.png' で終わるファイル名を持つすべての通常ファイルを表示するには:

 virt-ls -lR -d guest / | grep -i '^-.*\.png$'

ホームディレクトリにある 10MB より大きなファイルを表示するには:

 virt-ls -lR -d guest /home | awk '$3 > 10*1024*1024'

7日以内に変更されたものをすべて検索します:

 virt-ls -lR -d guest --time-days / | awk '$6 <= 7'

24時間以内に変更された通常のファイルを検索します:

 virt-ls -lR -d guest --time-days / | grep '^-' | awk '$6 < 1'

=head2 DIFFERENCES IN SNAPSHOTS AND BACKING FILES

Find the differences between files in a guest and an earlier snapshot of the
same guest.

 virt-ls -lR -a snapshot.img / --uids --time-t > old
 virt-ls -lR -a current.img / --uids --time-t > new
 diff -u old new | less

The commands above won't find files where the content has changed but the
metadata (eg. file size and modification date) is the same.  To do that, you
need to add the I<--checksum> parameter to both C<virt-ls> commands.
I<--checksum> can be quite slow since it has to read and compute a checksum
of every regular file in the virtual machine.

=head1 出力モード

C<virt-ls> は 4 つの出力モードがあります。I<-l> および I<-R> オプションの異なる組み合わせにより制御されます。

=head2 簡単な一覧方法

簡単な一覧方法は通常の L<ls(1)> コマンドと似ています:

 $ virt-ls -d guest /
 bin
 boot
 [etc.]

=head2 ロング形式の一覧方法

I<-l> (I<--long>) オプションを用いると、出力は C<ls -l> コマンドのようになります（より具体的には C<guestfs_ll>
関数と似ています）。

 $ virt-ls -l -d guest /
 total 204
 dr-xr-xr-x.   2 root root   4096 2009-08-25 19:06 bin
 dr-xr-xr-x.   5 root root   3072 2009-08-25 19:06 boot
 [etc.]

これはディレクトリーを表示するために有用ですが、他のプログラムにおいてこの出力を解析しないよう注意してください。代わりに
L</再帰的なロング形式の一覧方法> を使用してください。

=head2 再帰的な一覧方法

I<-R> (I<--recursive>) オプションを用いると、C<virt-ls> はファイルおよびディレクトリーを再帰的に一覧表示します:

 $ virt-ls -R -d guest /tmp
 foo
 foo/bar
 [etc.]

この出力を生成するには、C<virt-ls> が C<guestfs_find0> 関数を実行して、C<\0> 文字を C<\n> に変換します。

=head2 再帰的なロング形式の一覧方法

Using I<-lR> options together changes the output to display directories
recursively, with file stats, and optionally other features such as
checksums and extended attributes.

Most of the interesting features of C<virt-ls> are only available when using
I<-lR> mode.

The fields are normally space-separated.  Filenames are B<not> quoted, so
you cannot use the output in another program (because filenames can contain
spaces and other unsafe characters).  If the guest was untrusted and someone
knew you were using C<virt-ls> to analyze the guest, they could play tricks
on you by creating filenames with embedded newline characters.  To B<safely>
parse the output in another program, use the I<--csv> (Comma-Separated
Values) option.

Note that this output format is completely unrelated to the C<ls -lR>
command.

 $ virt-ls -lR -d guest /bin
 d 0555       4096 /bin
 - 0755        123 /bin/alsaunmute
 - 0755      28328 /bin/arch
 l 0777          4 /bin/awk -> gawk
 - 0755      27216 /bin/basename
 - 0755     943360 /bin/bash
 [etc.]

These basic fields are always shown:

=over 4

=item type

ファイル形式。次のどれかです: C<-> (通常のファイル), C<d> (ディレクトリー), C<c> (キャラクターデバイス), C<b>
(ブロックデバイス), C<p> (名前付きパイプ), C<l> (シンボリックリンク), C<s> (ソケット) or C<u> (不明)。

=item パーミッション

Unix パーティション。4 桁の8進数として表示されます。

=item 容量

ファイルの容量。  読みやすい形式の数値として表示する I<-h> または I<--human-readable>
オプションが指定されていなければ、バイト単位で表示されます。

=item パス

ファイルまたはディレクトリの完全パス。

=item リンク

シンボリックリンクのみに対して、リンク先。

=back

I<-lR> モードでは、追加のコマンドラインオプションにより、さらなる項目の表示を有効にします。

I<--uids> フラグを用いると、これらの追加項目がパスの前に表示されます:

=over 4

=item uid

=item gid

ファイルの所有者の UID および GID (数値表記)。  これらは Unix 系の仮想マシンにおいてのみ意味があることに注意してください。

=back

I<--times> フラグがあると、これらの追加項目が表示されます:

=over 4

=item atime

アクセス日時。

=item mtime

最終変更日時。

=item ctime

最終属性変更日時。

=back

I<--time-t>, I<--time-relative> または I<--time-days>
フラグのどれかが指定されていなければ、日付と時間の文字列として time 項目が表示されます。

I<--extra-stats> フラグを用いると、これらの追加項目が表示されます:

=over 4

=item device

The device containing the file (displayed as major:minor).  This may not
match devices as known to the guest.

=item inode

inode 番号。

=item nlink

ハードリンク数。

=item rdev

For block and char special files, the device (displayed as major:minor).

=item ブロック

ファイルに割り当てられた 512 バイトブロック数。

=back

With the I<--checksum> flag, the checksum of the file contents is shown
(only for regular files).  Computing file checksums can take a considerable
amount of time.

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<--help>

簡単なヘルプを表示します。

=item B<-a> file

=item B<--add> file

Add I<file> which should be a disk image from a virtual machine.  If the
virtual machine has multiple block devices, you must supply all of them with
separate I<-a> options.

ディスクイメージの形式は自動検知されます。これを上書きして強制的に特定の形式を使用するには、I<--format=..> オプションを使用します。

=item B<--checksum>

=item B<--checksum=crc|md5|sha1|sha224|sha256|sha384|sha512>

Display checksum over file contents for regular files.  With no argument,
this defaults to using I<md5>.  Using an argument, you can select the
checksum type to use.

このオプションは I<-lR> 出力モードにおいてのみ効果があります。  上の L</RECURSIVE LONG LISTING> 参照。

=item B<-c> URI

=item B<--connect> URI

libvirt を使用していると、指定された I<URI> に接続します。  省略すると、デフォルトの libvirt ハイパーバイザーに接続します。

ゲストのブロックデバイスを直接指定していると（(I<-a>)）、libvirt は何も使用されません。

=item B<--csv>

Write out the results in CSV format (comma-separated values).  This format
can be imported easily into databases and spreadsheets, but read L</NOTE
ABOUT CSV FORMAT> below.

=item B<-d> guest

=item B<--domain> guest

名前付きの libvirt 仮想マシンからすべてのディスクを追加します。  ドメインの UUID が名前の代わりに使用されます。

=item B<--echo-keys>

When prompting for keys and passphrases, virt-ls normally turns echoing off
so you cannot see what you are typing.  If you are not worried about Tempest
attacks and there is no one else in the room you can specify this flag to
see what you are typing.

=item B<--extra-stats>

Display extra stats.

このオプションは I<-lR> 出力モードにおいてのみ効果があります。  上の L</RECURSIVE LONG LISTING> 参照。

=item B<--format=raw|qcow2|..>

=item B<--format>

I<-a> オプションのデフォルトはディスクイメージの形式を自動検知します。これを使用することにより、I<-a>
オプションのディスク形式をコマンドラインにおいて指定したものに強制できます。引数なしで I<--format> を使用することにより、後続の I<-a>
オプションに対して自動検知に戻せます。

例:

 virt-ls --format=raw -a disk.img /dir

C<disk.img> に対してローイメージを強制します（自動検出しません）。

 virt-ls --format=raw -a disk.img --format -a another.img /dir

C<disk.img> に対してロー形式（自動検知なし）を強制し、C<another.img> に対して自動検知に戻します。

仮想マシンのディスクイメージが信頼できないロー形式であるならば、ディスク形式を指定するためにこのオプションを使用すべきです。これにより、悪意のある仮想マシンにより起こり得るセキュリティ問題を回避できます
(CVE-2010-3851)。

=item B<-h>

=item B<--human-readable>

読みやすい形式でファイル容量を表示します。

このオプションは I<-lR> 出力モードにおいてのみ効果があります。  上の L</RECURSIVE LONG LISTING> 参照。

=item B<--keys-from-stdin>

Read key or passphrase parameters from stdin.  The default is to try to read
passphrases from the user by opening C</dev/tty>.

=item B<-l>

=item B<--long>

=item B<-R>

=item B<--recursive>

Select the mode.  With neither of these options, C<virt-ls> produces a
simple, flat list of the files in the named directory.  See L</SIMPLE
LISTING>.

C<virt-ls -l> produces a "long listing", which shows more detail.  See
L</LONG LISTING>.

C<virt-ls -R> produces a recursive list of files starting at the named
directory.  See L</RECURSIVE LISTING>.

C<virt-ls -lR> produces a recursive long listing which can be more easily
parsed.  See L</RECURSIVE LONG LISTING>.

=item B<--times>

Display time fields.

このオプションは I<-lR> 出力モードにおいてのみ効果があります。  上の L</RECURSIVE LONG LISTING> 参照。

=item B<--time-days>

Display time fields as days before now (negative if in the future).

Note that C<0> in output means "up to 1 day before now", or that the age of
the file is between 0 and 86399 seconds.

このオプションは I<-lR> 出力モードにおいてのみ効果があります。  上の L</RECURSIVE LONG LISTING> 参照。

=item B<--time-relative>

Display time fields as seconds before now (negative if in the future).

このオプションは I<-lR> 出力モードにおいてのみ効果があります。  上の L</RECURSIVE LONG LISTING> 参照。

=item B<--time-t>

Display time fields as seconds since the Unix epoch.

このオプションは I<-lR> 出力モードにおいてのみ効果があります。  上の L</RECURSIVE LONG LISTING> 参照。

=item B<--uids>

UID と GID の項目を表示します。

このオプションは I<-lR> 出力モードにおいてのみ効果があります。  上の L</RECURSIVE LONG LISTING> 参照。

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

デバッグ用の冗長なメッセージを有効にします。

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

バージョン番号を表示して終了します。

=item B<-x>

libguestfs API 呼び出しのトレースを有効にします。

=back

=head1 旧形式のコマンドライン引数

Previous versions of virt-ls allowed you to write either:

 virt-ls disk.img [disk.img ...] /dir

または

 virt-ls guestname /dir

whereas in this version you should use I<-a> or I<-d> respectively to avoid
the confusing case where a disk image might have the same name as a guest.

互換性のため古い形式がまだサポートされています。

=head1 CSV 形式に関する注意

Comma-separated values (CSV) is a deceptive format.  It I<seems> like it
should be easy to parse, but it is definitely not easy to parse.

Myth: Just split fields at commas.  Reality: This does I<not> work
reliably.  This example has two columns:

 "foo,bar",baz

Myth: Read the file one line at a time.  Reality: This does I<not> work
reliably.  This example has one row:

 "foo
 bar",baz

For shell scripts, use C<csvtool> (L<http://merjis.com/developers/csv> also
packaged in major Linux distributions).

For other languages, use a CSV processing library (eg. C<Text::CSV> for Perl
or Python's built-in csv library).

Most spreadsheets and databases can import CSV directly.

=head1 SHELL QUOTING

Libvirt guest names can contain arbitrary characters, some of which have
meaning to the shell such as C<#> and space.  You may need to quote or
escape these characters on the command line.  See the shell manual page
L<sh(1)> for details.

=head1 終了ステータス

このプログラムは、成功すると 0 を、エラーがあると 0 以外を返します。

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-cat(1)>, L<virt-copy-out(1)>,
L<virt-tar-out(1)>, L<Sys::Guestfs(3)>, L<Sys::Guestfs::Lib(3)>,
L<Sys::Virt(3)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Red Hat Inc.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for
more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

