
=head1 名前

virt-diff - Differences between files in two virtual machines

=head1 書式

 virt-diff [--options] -d domain1 -D domain2

 virt-diff [--options] -a disk1.img [-a ...] -A disk2.img [-A ...]

=head1 説明

C<virt-diff> lists the differences between files in two virtual machines or
disk images.  The usual use case is to show the changes in a VM after it has
been running for a while, by taking a snapshot, running the VM, and then
using this tool to show what changed between the new VM state and the old
snapshot.

This tool will find differences in filenames, file sizes, checksums,
extended attributes, file content and more from a virtual machine or disk
image.  However it B<does not> look at the boot loader, unused space between
partitions or within filesystems, "hidden" sectors and so on.  In other
words, it is not a security or forensics tool.

To specify two guests, you have to use the I<-a> or I<-d> option(s)  for the
first guest, and the I<-A> or I<-D> option(s) for the second guest.  The
common case is:

 virt-diff -a old.img -A new.img

or using names known to libvirt:

 virt-diff -d oldguest -D newguest

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<--help>

簡単なヘルプを表示します。

=item B<-a> file

=item B<--add> file

Add I<file> which should be a disk image from the first virtual machine.  If
the virtual machine has multiple block devices, you must supply all of them
with separate I<-a> options.

ディスクイメージの形式は自動検知されます。 これを上書きして強制的に特定の形式を使用する場合、 I<--format=..> オプションを使用します。

=item B<-a> URI

=item B<--add> URI

リモートディスクを追加します。 L<guestfish(1)/リモートストレージの追加> 参照。

=item B<--all>

Same as I<--extra-stats> I<--times> I<--uids> I<--xattrs>.

=item B<--atime>

The default is to ignore changes in file access times, since those are
unlikely to be interesting.  Using this flag shows atime differences as
well.

=item B<-A> file

=item B<-A> URI

Add a disk image from the second virtual machine.

=item B<--checksum>

=item B<--checksum=crc|md5|sha1|sha224|sha256|sha384|sha512>

Use a checksum over file contents to detect when regular files have changed
content.

With no argument, this defaults to using I<md5>.  Using an argument, you can
select the checksum type to use.  If the flag is omitted then file times and
size are used to determine if a file has changed.

=item B<-c> URI

=item B<--connect> URI

libvirt を使用していると、指定された I<URI> に接続します。  省略すると、デフォルトの libvirt ハイパーバイザーに接続します。

ゲストのブロックデバイスを直接指定していると（(I<-a>)）、libvirt は何も使用されません。

=item B<--csv>

Write out the results in CSV format (comma-separated values).  This format
can be imported easily into databases and spreadsheets, but read L</NOTE
ABOUT CSV FORMAT> below.

=item B<--dir-links>

The default is to ignore changes in the number of links in directory
entries, since those are unlikely to be interesting.  Using this flag shows
changes to the nlink field of directories.

=item B<--dir-times>

The default is to ignore changed times on directory entries, since those are
unlikely to be interesting.  Using this flag shows changes to the time
fields of directories.

=item B<-d> guest

=item B<--domain> guest

Add all the disks from the named libvirt guest, as the first guest.  Domain
UUIDs can be used instead of names.

=item B<-D> guest

Add all the disks from the named libvirt guest, as the second guest.  Domain
UUIDs can be used instead of names.

=item B<--echo-keys>

When prompting for keys and passphrases, virt-diff normally turns echoing
off so you cannot see what you are typing.  If you are not worried about
Tempest attacks and there is no one else in the room you can specify this
flag to see what you are typing.

=item B<--extra-stats>

Display extra stats.

=item B<--format=raw|qcow2|..>

=item B<--format>

The default for the I<-a>/I<-A> option is to auto-detect the format of the
disk image.  Using this forces the disk format for I<-a>/I<-A> options which
follow on the command line.  Using I<--format> with no argument switches
back to auto-detection for subsequent I<-a>/I<-A> options.

例:

 virt-diff --format=raw -a disk.img [...]

forces raw format (no auto-detection) for F<disk.img>.

 virt-diff --format=raw -a disk.img --format -a another.img [...]

forces raw format (no auto-detection) for F<disk.img> and reverts to
auto-detection for F<another.img>.

仮想マシンのディスクイメージが信頼できない raw 形式である場合、 ディスク形式を指定するためにこのオプションを使用すべきです。
これにより、悪意のある仮想マシンにより起こり得る セキュリティ問題を回避できます (CVE-2010-3851)。

=item B<-h>

=item B<--human-readable>

読みやすい形式でファイル容量を表示します。

=item B<--keys-from-stdin>

Read key or passphrase parameters from stdin.  The default is to try to read
passphrases from the user by opening F</dev/tty>.

=item B<--times>

時間の項目を表示します。

=item B<--time-days>

Display time fields as days before now (negative if in the future).

Note that C<0> in output means "up to 1 day before now", or that the age of
the file is between 0 and 86399 seconds.

=item B<--time-relative>

Display time fields as seconds before now (negative if in the future).

=item B<--time-t>

Display time fields as seconds since the Unix epoch.

=item B<--uids>

UID と GID の項目を表示します。

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

デバッグ用の冗長なメッセージを有効にします。

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

バージョン番号を表示して、終了します。

=item B<-x>

libguestfs API 呼び出しのトレースを有効にします。

=item B<--xattrs>

Display extended attributes.

=back

=head1 CSV 形式に関する注意

Comma-separated values (CSV) is a deceptive format.  It I<seems> like it
should be easy to parse, but it is definitely not easy to parse.

神話: ただコンマで項目を区切る。 真実: これは正しく動き I<ません>。この例は 2 つの列があります:

 "foo,bar",baz

神話: 同時にファイルの 1 行を読み込みます。 真実: これは正しく動き I<ません>。この例は 1 つの行があります:

 "foo
 bar",baz

For shell scripts, use C<csvtool> (L<https://github.com/Chris00/ocaml-csv>
also packaged in major Linux distributions).

For other languages, use a CSV processing library (eg. C<Text::CSV> for Perl
or Python’s built-in csv library).

Most spreadsheets and databases can import CSV directly.

=head1 終了ステータス

このプログラムは、成功すると 0 を、エラーがあると 0 以外を返します。

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-cat(1)>, L<virt-copy-out(1)>,
L<virt-ls(1)>, L<virt-tar-out(1)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2018 Red Hat Inc.

