=encoding utf8

=head1 名前

virt-copy-in - ファイルおよびディレクトリを仮想マシンのディスクイメージにコピーします。

=head1 書式

 virt-copy-in -a disk.img file|dir [file|dir ...] /destination

 virt-copy-in -d domain file|dir [file|dir ...] /destination

=head1 警告

Using C<virt-copy-in> on live virtual machines can be dangerous, potentially
causing disk corruption.  The virtual machine must be shut down before you
use this command.

=head1 説明

C<virt-copy-in> copies files and directories from the local disk into a
virtual machine disk image or named libvirt domain.

You can give one of more filenames and directories on the command line.
Directories are copied in recursively.  The final parameter must be the
destination directory in the disk image which must be an absolute path
starting with a C</> character.

=head1 例

仮想マシンの C</etc/resolv.conf> を更新します:

 virt-copy-in -d MyGuest resolv.conf /etc

ホームディレクトリを仮想マシンにアップロードします:

 virt-copy-in -d MyGuest skel /home

=head1 JUST A SHELL SCRIPT WRAPPER AROUND GUESTFISH

This command is just a simple shell script wrapper around the
L<guestfish(1)> C<copy-in> command.  For anything more complex than a
trivial copy, you are probably better off using guestfish directly.

=head1 オプション

Since the shell script just passes options straight to guestfish, read
L<guestfish(1)> to see the full list of options.

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-cat(1)>, L<virt-copy-out(1)>, L<virt-edit(1)>,
L<virt-tar-in(1)>, L<virt-tar-out(1)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat Inc.  L<http://libguestfs.org/>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for
more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

