
=head1 名前

virt-get-kernel - Extract kernel and ramdisk from guests

=head1 書式

 virt-get-kernel [--options] -d domname

 virt-get-kernel [--options] -a disk.img

=head1 説明

This option extracts the kernel and initramfs from a guest.

The format of the disk image is automatically detected unless you specify it
by using the I<--format> option.

In the case where the guest contains multiple kernels, the one with the
highest version number is chosen.  To extract arbitrary kernels from the
disk image, see L<guestfish(1)>.  To extract the entire C</boot> directory
of a guest, see L<virt-copy-out(1)>.

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<--help>

ヘルプを表示します。

=item B<-a> file

=item B<--add> file

仮想マシンからディスクイメージの I<file> を追加します。

ディスクイメージの形式は自動的に検出されます。強制的に特定の形式を使用するには I<--format> オプションを使用します。

=item B<-a> URI

=item B<--add> URI

Add a remote disk.  The URI format is compatible with guestfish.  See
L<guestfish(1)/ADDING REMOTE STORAGE>.

=item B<-c> URI

=item B<--connect> URI

libvirt を使用していると、指定された I<URI> に接続します。  省略すると、デフォルトの libvirt ハイパーバイザーに接続します。

ゲストのブロックデバイスを直接指定していると（(I<-a>)）、libvirt は何も使用されません。

=item B<-d> guest

=item B<--domain> guest

名前付きの libvirt 仮想マシンからすべてのディスクを追加します。  名前の代わりに仮想マシンの UUID を使用できます。

=item B<--format> raw|qcow2|..

=item B<--format> auto

The default for the I<-a> option is to auto-detect the format of the disk
image.  Using this forces the disk format for the I<-a> option on the
command line.

仮想マシンのディスクイメージが信頼できない raw 形式である場合、 ディスク形式を指定するためにこのオプションを使用すべきです。
これにより、悪意のある仮想マシンにより起こり得る セキュリティ問題を回避できます (CVE-2010-3851)。

=item B<--machine-readable>

このオプションは、他のプログラムにより解析されるときに、よりマシンに易しい出力を作成するために使用されます。以下の L</マシン可読な出力> 参照。

=item B<-o> directory

=item B<--output> directory

This option specifies the output directory where kernel and initramfs from
the guest are written.

If not specified, the default output is the current directory.

=item B<--prefix> prefix

This option specifies a prefix for the extracted files.

If a prefix is specified, then there will be a dash (C<->) after the prefix
and before the rest of the file name; for example, a kernel in the guest
like C<vmlinuz-3.19.0-20-generic> is saved as
C<mydistro-vmlinuz-3.19.0-20-generic> when the prefix is C<mydistro>.

See also I<--unversioned-names>.

=item B<-q>

=item B<--quiet>

Don't print ordinary progress messages.

=item B<--unversioned-names>

This option affects the destination file name of extracted files.

If enabled, files will be saved locally just with the base name; for
example, kernel and ramdisk in the guest like C<vmlinuz-3.19.0-20-generic>
and C<initrd.img-3.19.0-20-generic> are saved respectively as C<vmlinuz> and
C<initrd.img>.

See also I<--prefix>.

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

デバッグ用の冗長なメッセージを有効にします。

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

バージョン番号を表示して、終了します。

=item B<-x>

libguestfs API 呼び出しのトレースを有効にします。

=back

=head1 マシン可読な出力

The I<--machine-readable> option can be used to make the output more machine
friendly, which is useful when calling virt-get-kernel from other programs,
GUIs etc.

Use the option on its own to query the capabilities of the virt-get-kernel
binary.  Typical output looks like this:

 $ virt-get-kernel --machine-readable
 virt-get-kernel

A list of features is printed, one per line, and the program exits with
status 0.

=head1 環境変数

For other environment variables which affect all libguestfs programs, see
L<guestfs(3)/ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES>.

=head1 終了ステータス

このプログラムは、成功すると 0 を、エラーがあると 0 以外を返します。

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfish(1)>, L<guestmount(1)>, L<virt-copy-out(1)>,
L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Red Hat Inc.

