=encoding utf8

=head1 名前

virt-format - ディスクの消去および空のディスクの作成

=head1 書式

 virt-format [--options] -a disk.img [-a disk.img ...]

=head1 説明

Virt-format takes an existing disk file (or it can be a host partition, LV
etc), B<erases all data on it>, and formats it as a blank disk.  It can
optionally create partition tables, empty filesystems, logical volumes and
more.

To create a disk containing data, you may be better to use
L<virt-make-fs(1)>.  If you are creating a blank disk to use in
L<guestfish(1)>, you should instead use the guestfish I<-N> option.

通常の使用方法はこのようになります:

 virt-format -a disk.qcow

または、このようになります:

 virt-format -a /dev/VG/LV

C<disk.qcow> or C</dev/VG/LV> must exist already.  B<Any data on these disks
will be erased by these commands>.  These commands will create a single
empty partition covering the whole disk, with no filesystem inside it.

Additional parameters can be used to control the creation of partitions,
filesystems, etc.  The most commonly used options are:

=over 4

=item I<--filesystem=[ext3|ntfs|vfat|...]>

Create an empty filesystem (C<ext3>, C<ntfs> etc) inside the partition.

=item I<--lvm[=/dev/VG/LV]>

Create a Linux LVM2 logical volume on the disk.  When used with
I<--filesystem>, the filesystem is created inside the LV.

=back

For more information about these and other options, see L</OPTIONS> below.

The format of the disk is normally auto-detected, but you can also force it
by using the I<--format> option (q.v.).  In situations where you do not
trust the existing content of the disk, then it is advisable to use this
option to avoid possible exploits.

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<--help>

簡単なヘルプを表示します。

=item B<-a> file

=item B<--add> file

I<ファイル>、ディスクイメージ、ホストのパーティション、論理ボリューム、外部 USB ディスクなどを追加します。

ディスクイメージの形式は自動検知されます。これを上書きして強制的に特定の形式を使用するには、I<--format=..> オプションを使用します。

B<ディスクにある既存のデータはすべて削除されます。>

=item B<--filesystem=ext3|ntfs|vfat|...>

Create an empty filesystem of the specified type.  Many filesystem types are
supported by libguestfs.

=item B<--filesystem=none>

ファイルシステムを作成しません。  これがデフォルトです。

=item B<--format=raw|qcow2|..>

=item B<--format>

I<-a> オプションのデフォルトはディスクイメージの形式を自動検知します。これを使用することにより、I<-a>
オプションのディスク形式をコマンドラインにおいて指定したものに強制できます。引数なしで I<--format> を使用することにより、後続の I<-a>
オプションに対して自動検知に戻せます。

例:

 virt-format --format=raw -a disk.img

C<disk.img> に対してローイメージを強制します（自動検出しません）。

 virt-format --format=raw -a disk.img --format -a another.img

C<disk.img> に対してロー形式（自動検知なし）を強制し、C<another.img> に対して自動検知に戻します。

仮想マシンのディスクイメージが信頼できないロー形式であるならば、ディスク形式を指定するためにこのオプションを使用すべきです。これにより、悪意のある仮想マシンにより起こり得るセキュリティ問題を回避できます
(CVE-2010-3851)。

=item B<--lvm=/dev/I<VG>/I<LV>>

Create a Linux LVM2 logical volume called C</dev/I<VG>/I<LV>>.  You can
change the name of the volume group and logical volume.

=item B<--lvm>

初期名 (C</dev/VG/LV>) を用いて Linux LVM2 論理ボリュームを作成します。

=item B<--lvm=none>

論理ボリュームを作成しません。  これがデフォルトです。

=item B<--partition>

ディスク全体をカバーする MBR または GPT パーティションを作成します。ディスク容量が E<lt> 2 TB ならば MBR
が選択されます。容量が E<ge> 2 TB ならば GPT が選択されます。

これがデフォルトです。

=item B<--partition=gpt>

GPT パーティションを作成します。

=item B<--partition=mbr>

MBR パーティションを作成します。

=item B<--partition=none>

パーティションテーブルを作成しません。Windows はこれらのディスクを認識できないかもしれないことに注意してください。

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

デバッグ用の冗長なメッセージを有効にします。

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

バージョン番号を表示して終了します。

=item B<--wipe>

Normally virt-format does not wipe data from the disk (because that takes a
long time).  Thus if there is data on the disk, it is only hidden and
partially overwritten by virt-format, and it might be recovered by disk
editing tools.

If you use this option, virt-format writes zeroes over the whole disk so
that previous data is not recoverable.

=item B<-x>

libguestfs API 呼び出しのトレースを有効にします。

=back

=head1 終了ステータス

このプログラムは、成功すると C<0>、失敗すると C<1> を返します。

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-filesystems(1)>, L<virt-make-fs(1)>,
L<virt-rescue(1)>, L<virt-resize(1)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat Inc.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for
more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

