
=head1 名前

virt-sparsify - 仮想マシンのディスクをスパースにします

=head1 書式

 virt-sparsify [--options] indisk outdisk

 virt-sparsify [--options] --in-place disk

=head1 説明

Virt-sparsify is a tool which can make a virtual machine disk (or any disk
image) sparse a.k.a. thin-provisioned.  This means that free space within
the disk image can be converted back to free space on the host.

Virt-sparsify can locate and sparsify free space in most filesystems
(eg. ext2/3/4, btrfs, NTFS, etc.), and also in LVM physical volumes.

Virt-sparsify はさまざまなディスクフォーマットを変換することができます。例えば、raw ディスクイメージをシンプロビジョニングされた
qcow2 イメージに変換することができます。

Virt-sparsify can operate on any disk image, not just ones from virtual
machines.  However if a virtual machine has multiple disks and uses volume
management, then virt-sparsify will work but not be very effective
(L<http://bugzilla.redhat.com/887826>).

=head2 IMPORTANT NOTE ABOUT SPARSE OUTPUT IMAGES

If the input is raw, then the default output is raw sparse.  B<You must
check the output size using a tool that understands sparseness> such as C<du
-sh>.  It can make a huge difference:

 $ ls -lh test1.img
 -rw-rw-r--. 1 rjones rjones 100M Aug  8 08:08 test1.img
 $ du -sh test1.img
 3.6M	test1.img

(見た目の容量 B<100M> と実際の容量 B<3.6M> を比較します)

=head2 IMPORTANT LIMITATIONS

=over 4

=item *

The virtual machine I<must be shut down> before using this tool.

=item *

Virt-sparsify may require up to 2x the virtual size of the source disk image
(1 temporary copy + 1 destination image).  This is in the worst case and
usually much less space is required.

If you are using the I<--in-place> option, then large amounts of temporary
space are B<not> required.

=item *

Virt-sparsify cannot resize disk images.  To do that, use L<virt-resize(1)>.

=item *

virt-sparsify は暗号化されたディスクを処理できません。 libguestfs
は暗号化されたディスクをサポートしますが、暗号化されたディスク自体はスパース化できません。

=item *

Virt-sparsify cannot yet sparsify the space between partitions.  Note that
this space is often used for critical items like bootloaders so it's not
really unused.

=item *

In copy mode, qcow2 internal snapshots are not copied over to the
destination image.

=back

You may also want to read the manual pages for the associated tools
L<virt-filesystems(1)> and L<virt-df(1)> before starting.

=head1 例

一般的な使用法は次のとおりです:

 virt-sparsify indisk outdisk

which copies C<indisk> to C<outdisk>, making the output sparse.  C<outdisk>
is created, or overwritten if it already exists.  The format of the input
disk is detected (eg. qcow2) and the same format is used for the output
disk.

形式を変換するには I<--convert> オプションを使用します:

 virt-sparsify disk.raw --convert qcow2 disk.qcow2

Virt-sparsify tries to zero and sparsify free space on every filesystem it
can find within the source disk image.  You can get it to ignore (don't zero
free space on) certain filesystems by doing:

 virt-sparsify --ignore /dev/sda1 indisk outdisk

ディスクイメージにあるファイルシステムの一覧を取得するには L<virt-filesystems(1)> を参照してください。

Since virt-sparsify E<ge> 1.26, you can now sparsify a disk image in place
by doing:

 virt-sparsify --in-place disk.img

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<--help>

ヘルプを表示します。

=item B<--check-tmpdir=ignore>

=item B<--check-tmpdir=continue>

=item B<--check-tmpdir=warn>

=item B<--check-tmpdir=fail>

Check if L</TMPDIR> or I<--tmp> directory has enough space to complete the
operation.  This is just an estimate.

If the check indicates a problem, then you can either:

=over 4

=item *

B<ignore> it,

=item *

print a warning and B<continue>,

=item *

B<warn> and wait for the user to press the Return key (this is the default),
or:

=item *

B<fail> and exit.

=back

You cannot use this option and I<--in-place> together.

=item B<--compress>

出力ファイルを圧縮します。これは 出力形式が C<qcow2> の場合 I<のみ> 機能します。

You cannot use this option and I<--in-place> together.

=item B<--convert> raw

=item B<--convert> qcow2

=item B<--convert> [other formats]

Use C<output-format> as the format for the destination image.  If this is
not specified, then the input format is used.

サポートされる既知の動作済み出力形式は次のとおりです: C<raw>, C<qcow2>, C<vdi>。

L<qemu-img(1)> プログラムによりサポートされるすべての形式を使用できます。たとえば、C<vmdk> ですが、他の形式のサポートは QEMU
に依存します。

Specifying the I<--convert> option is usually a good idea, because then
virt-sparsify doesn't need to try to guess the input format.

出力形式を詳細に調整します。関連項目: I<--compress>, I<-o>.

You cannot use this option and I<--in-place> together.

=item B<--debug-gc>

ガベージコレクションおよびメモリー割り当てをデバッグします。これは virt-sparsify におけるメモリー問題または OCaml
libguestfs バインドをデバッグするときのみ有用です。

=item B<--format> raw

=item B<--format> qcow2

Specify the format of the input disk image.  If this flag is not given then
it is auto-detected from the image itself.

If working with untrusted raw-format guest disk images, you should ensure
the format is always specified.

=item B<--ignore> filesystem

=item B<--ignore> volgroup

Ignore the named filesystem.

When not using I<--in-place>: Free space on the filesystem will not be
zeroed, but existing blocks of zeroes will still be sparsified.

When using I<--in-place>, the filesystem is ignored completely.

In the second form, this ignores the named volume group.  Use the volume
group name without the C</dev/> prefix, eg. I<--ignore vg_foo>

このオプションは複数回指定できます。

=item B<--in-place>

Do in-place sparsification instead of copying sparsification.  See
L</IN-PLACE SPARSIFICATION> below.

=item B<--machine-readable>

このオプションは、他のプログラムにより解析されるときに、よりマシンに易しい出力を作成するために使用されます。以下の L</マシン可読な出力> 参照。

=item B<-o> option[,option,...]

Pass I<-o> option(s) to the L<qemu-img(1)> command to fine-tune the output
format.  Options available depend on the output format (see I<--convert>)
and the installed version of the qemu-img program.

You should use I<-o> at most once.  To pass multiple options, separate them
with commas, eg:

 virt-sparsify --convert qcow2 \
   -o cluster_size=512,preallocation=metadata ...

You cannot use this option and I<--in-place> together.

=item B<-q>

=item B<--quiet>

This disables progress bars and other unnecessary output.

=item B<--tmp> block_device

=item B<--tmp> dir

In copying mode only, use the named device or directory as the location of
the temporary overlay (see also L</TMPDIR> below).

If the parameter given is a block device, then the block device is written
to directly.  B<Note this erases the existing contents of the block device>.

If the parameter is a directory, then this is the same as setting the
L</TMPDIR> environment variable.

You cannot use this option and I<--in-place> together.

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

デバッグ用の冗長なメッセージを有効にします。

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

バージョン番号を表示して、終了します。

=item B<-x>

libguestfs API 呼び出しのトレースを有効にします。

=item B<--zero> パーティション

=item B<--zero> 論理ボリューム

仮想マシンにある名前付きパーティションまたは論理ボリュームの内容をゼロ上書きします。デバイスにあるすべてのデータは失われます。しかし、スパース化は素晴らしいことです！このオプションを複数回指定できます。

=back

=head1 IN-PLACE SPARSIFICATION

Since virt-sparsify E<ge> 1.26, the tool is able to do in-place
sparsification (instead of copying from an input disk to an output disk).
This is more efficient.  However it requires special support in libguestfs,
the kernel and qemu, and it is not able to recover quite as much space as
copying sparsification.  So in-place sparsification is considered to be
experimental at this time.

To use this mode, specify a disk image which will be modified in place:

 virt-sparsify --in-place disk.img

Some options are not compatible with this mode: I<--convert>, I<--compress>
and I<-o> because they require wholesale disk format changes;
I<--check-tmpdir> because large amounts of temporary space are not required.

In-place sparsification works using discard (a.k.a trim or unmap)  support.

=head1 マシン可読な出力

The I<--machine-readable> option can be used to make the output more machine
friendly, which is useful when calling virt-sparsify from other programs,
GUIs etc.

このオプションを使用するには 2 通りの方法があります。

Firstly use the option on its own to query the capabilities of the
virt-sparsify binary.  Typical output looks like this:

 $ virt-sparsify --machine-readable
 virt-sparsify
 ntfs
 btrfs

A list of features is printed, one per line, and the program exits with
status 0.

Secondly use the option in conjunction with other options to make the
regular program output more machine friendly.

At the moment this means:

=over 4

=item 1.

Progress bar messages can be parsed from stdout by looking for this regular
expression:

 ^[0-9]+/[0-9]+$

=item 2.

The calling program should treat messages sent to stdout (except for
progress bar messages) as status messages.  They can be logged and/or
displayed to the user.

=item 3.

The calling program should treat messages sent to stderr as error messages.
In addition, virt-sparsify exits with a non-zero status code if there was a
fatal error.

=back

All versions of virt-sparsify have supported the I<--machine-readable>
option.

=head1 WINDOWS 8

Windows 8 "fast startup" can prevent virt-sparsify from working.  See
L<guestfs(3)/WINDOWS HIBERNATION AND WINDOWS 8 FAST STARTUP>.

=head1 環境変数

=over 4

=item TMPDIR

Location of the temporary directory used for the potentially large temporary
overlay file.

In virt-sparsify E<ge> 1.28, you can override this environment variable
using the I<--tmp> option.

You should ensure there is enough free space in the worst case for a full
copy of the source disk (I<virtual> size), or else set C<$TMPDIR> to point
to another directory that has enough space.

この初期値は C</tmp> です。

Note that if C<$TMPDIR> is a tmpfs (eg. if C</tmp> is on tmpfs, or if you
use C<TMPDIR=/dev/shm>), tmpfs defaults to a maximum size of I<half> of
physical RAM.  If virt-sparsify exceeds this, it will hang.  The solution is
either to use a real disk, or to increase the maximum size of the tmpfs
mountpoint, eg:

 mount -o remount,size=10G /tmp

If you are using the I<--in-place> option, then large amounts of temporary
space are B<not> required.

=back

他の環境変数は L<guestfs(3)/環境変数> を参照してください。

=head1 終了ステータス

This program returns 0 if the operation completed without errors.  (This
doesn't necessarily mean that space could be freed up.)

A non-zero exit code indicates an error.

If the exit code is C<3> and the I<--in-place> option was used, that
indicates that discard support is not available in libguestfs, so copying
mode must be used instead.

=head1 関連項目

L<virt-df(1)>, L<virt-filesystems(1)>, L<virt-resize(1)>, L<virt-rescue(1)>,
L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfish(1)>, L<truncate(1)>, L<fallocate(1)>,
L<qemu-img(1)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011-2014 Red Hat Inc.

