=encoding utf8

=head1 名前

virt-tar-in - tar ファイルを仮想マシンのディスクイメージに展開します。

=head1 書式

 virt-tar-in -a disk.img data.tar /destination

 virt-tar-in -d domain data.tar /destination

 zcat data.tar.gz | virt-tar-in -d domain - /destination

=head1 警告

Using C<virt-tar-in> on live virtual machines can be dangerous, potentially
causing disk corruption.  The virtual machine must be shut down before you
use this command.

=head1 説明

C<virt-tar-in> unpacks an uncompressed tarball into a virtual machine disk
image or named libvirt domain.

The first parameter is the tar file.  Use C<-> to read the tar file from
standard input.  The second parameter is the absolute target directory to
unpack into.

=head1 例

ホームディレクトリを仮想マシンにアップロードします:

 virt-tar-in -d MyGuest homes.tar /home

=head1 JUST A SHELL SCRIPT WRAPPER AROUND GUESTFISH

This command is just a simple shell script wrapper around the
L<guestfish(1)> C<tar-in> command.  For anything more complex than a trivial
copy, you are probably better off using guestfish directly.

=head1 オプション

Since the shell script just passes options straight to guestfish, read
L<guestfish(1)> to see the full list of options.

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-cat(1)>, L<virt-copy-in(1)>, L<virt-copy-out(1)>,
L<virt-edit(1)>, L<virt-make-fs(1)>, L<virt-tar-out(1)>,
L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat Inc.  L<http://libguestfs.org/>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for
more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

