
=head1 名前

virt-p2v-make-disk - Build the virt-p2v disk using virt-builder

=head1 書式

 virt-p2v-make-disk -o /dev/sdX os-version

=head1 説明

L<virt-p2v(1)> converts a physical machine to run virtualized on KVM,
managed by libvirt, OpenStack, oVirt, Red Hat Enterprise Virtualisation
(RHEV), or one of the other targets supported by L<virt-v2v(1)>.

virt-p2v-make-disk is a script which creates a bootable disk image or USB
key containing virt-p2v.  It uses L<virt-builder(1)> to do this, and is just
a small shell script around virt-builder.

virt-p2v-make-disk has two required parameters:

The I<-o> parameter specifies where the output should go, for example to a
USB key (eg. C<-o /dev/sdX>) or to a file.  If you pass a device name, then
B<the existing contents of the device will be erased>.

The C<os-version> parameter is the base Linux distro to use for the
operating system on the ISO.  To list possible C<os-version> combinations,
do:

 virt-builder -l

=head2 例

Write a virt-p2v bootable USB key on F</dev/sdX> (and existing content is
erased), using Fedora 20 as the base distribution:

 virt-p2v-make-disk -o /dev/sdX fedora-20

Write a virt-p2v bootable virtual disk image, and boot it under qemu:

 virt-p2v-make-disk -o /var/tmp/p2v.img fedora-20
 qemu-kvm -m 1024 -boot c \
   -drive file=/var/tmp/p2v.img,if=virtio,index=0 \
   -drive file=/var/tmp/guest.img,if=virtio,index=1

where F</var/tmp/guest.img> would be the disk image of some guest that you
want to convert (for testing only).

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<--help>

ヘルプを表示します。

=item B<-o> OUTPUT

=item B<--output> OUTPUT

Write output to C<OUTPUT>, which can be a local file or block device.  B<The
existing contents of the device will be erased>.

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

バージョン番号を表示して、終了します。

=back

=head1 ファイル

=over 4

=item F<$libexecdir/virt-p2v>

The L<virt-p2v(1)> binary which is copied into the bootable disk image.  The
location of the binary can be changed by setting the C<VIRT_P2V_DATA_DIR>
environment variable.

=item F<$datadir/issue>

=item F<$datadir/launch-virt-p2v.in>

=item F<$datadir/p2v.service>

Various data files that are copied into the bootable disk image.

=back

=head1 環境変数

=over 4

=item C<VIRT_P2V_DATA_DIR>

The directory where virt-p2v-make-disk looks for data files (see L</FILES>
above).  If not set, a compiled-in location is used.

=back

=head1 関連項目

L<virt-p2v(1)>, L<virt-p2v-make-kickstart(1)>, L<virt-v2v(1)>,
L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2015 Red Hat Inc.

