
=head1 名前

virt-sysprep - 仮想マシンをクローンできるよう、再設定、設定解除またはカスタマイズします

=head1 書式

 virt-sysprep [--options] -d domname

 virt-sysprep [--options] -a disk.img [-a disk.img ...]

=head1 説明

Virt-sysprep can reset or unconfigure a virtual machine so that clones can
be made from it.  Steps in this process include removing SSH host keys,
removing persistent network MAC configuration, and removing user accounts.
Virt-sysprep can also customize a virtual machine, for instance by adding
SSH keys, users or logos.  Each step can be enabled or disabled as required.

Virt-sysprep modifies the guest or disk image I<in place>.  The guest must
be shut down.  If you want to preserve the existing contents of the guest,
I<you must snapshot, copy or clone the disk first>.  See L</COPYING AND
CLONING> below.

You do I<not> need to run virt-sysprep as root.  In fact we'd generally
recommend that you don't.  The time you might want to run it as root is when
you need root in order to access the disk image, but even in this case it
would be better to change the permissions on the disk image to be writable
as the non-root user running virt-sysprep.

"Sysprep" stands for "system preparation" tool.  The name comes from the
Microsoft program C<sysprep.exe> which is used to unconfigure Windows
machines in preparation for cloning them.  Having said that, virt-sysprep
does I<not> currently work on Microsoft Windows guests.  We plan to support
Windows sysprepping in a future version, and we already have code to do it.

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<--help>

簡単なヘルプを表示します。

=item B<-a> file

=item B<--add> file

仮想マシンからディスクイメージの I<file> を追加します。

ディスクイメージの形式は自動的に検出されます。強制的に特定の形式を使用するには I<--format> オプションを使用します。

=item B<-a> URI

=item B<--add> URI

Add a remote disk.  The URI format is compatible with guestfish.  See
L<guestfish(1)/ADDING REMOTE STORAGE>.

=item B<-c> URI

=item B<--connect> URI

libvirt を使用していると、指定された I<URI> に接続します。  省略すると、デフォルトの libvirt ハイパーバイザーに接続します。

ゲストのブロックデバイスを直接指定していると（(I<-a>)）、libvirt は何も使用されません。

=item B<-d> guest

=item B<--domain> guest

名前付きの libvirt 仮想マシンからすべてのディスクを追加します。  名前の代わりに仮想マシンの UUID を使用できます。

=item B<-n>

=item B<--dry-run>

Perform a read-only "dry run" on the guest.  This runs the sysprep
operation, but throws away any changes to the disk at the end.

=item B<--enable> operations

Choose which sysprep operations to perform.  Give a comma-separated list of
operations, for example:

 --enable ssh-hostkeys,udev-persistent-net

would enable ONLY C<ssh-hostkeys> and C<udev-persistent-net> operations.

If the I<--enable> option is not given, then we default to trying most
sysprep operations (see I<--list-operations> to show which are enabled).

Regardless of the I<--enable> option, sysprep operations are skipped for
some guest types.

特定のバージョンの virt-sysprep によりサポートされる操作の一覧を表示するには I<--list-operations> を使用します。

See L</OPERATIONS> below for a list and an explanation of each operation.

=item B<--operation> operations

=item B<--operations> operations

Choose which sysprep operations to perform.  Give a comma-separated list of
operations, for example:

 --operations ssh-hostkeys,udev-persistent-net

would enable ONLY C<ssh-hostkeys> and C<udev-persistent-net> operations.

I<--operations> allows you to enable and disable any operation, including
the default ones (which would be tried when specifying neither
I<--operations> nor I<--enable>) and all the available ones; prepending a
C<-> in front of an operation name removes it from the list of enabled
operations, while the meta-names C<defaults> and C<all> represent
respectively the operations enabled by default and all the available ones.
For example:

 --operations firewall-rules,defaults,-tmp-files

would enable the C<firewall-rules> operation (regardless whether it is
enabled by default), all the default ones, and disable the C<tmp-files>
operation.

I<--operations> can be specified multiple times; the first time the set of
enabled operations is empty, while any further I<--operations> affects the
operations enabled so far.

If the I<--operations> option is not given, then we default to trying most
sysprep operations (see I<--list-operations> to show which are enabled).

Regardless of the I<--operations> option, sysprep operations are skipped for
some guest types.

特定のバージョンの virt-sysprep によりサポートされる操作の一覧を表示するには I<--list-operations> を使用します。

See L</OPERATIONS> below for a list and an explanation of each operation.

=item B<--format> raw|qcow2|..

=item B<--format> auto

The default for the I<-a> option is to auto-detect the format of the disk
image.  Using this forces the disk format for I<-a> options which follow on
the command line.  Using I<--format auto> switches back to auto-detection
for subsequent I<-a> options.

例:

 virt-sysprep --format raw -a disk.img

強制的に C<disk.img> を raw 形式にします (自動検出しません)。

 virt-sysprep --format raw -a disk.img --format auto -a another.img

強制的に C<disk.img> を raw 形式にし (自動検知なし)、 C<another.img> に対して自動検知に戻します。

仮想マシンのディスクイメージが信頼できない raw 形式である場合、 ディスク形式を指定するためにこのオプションを使用すべきです。
これにより、悪意のある仮想マシンにより起こり得る セキュリティ問題を回避できます (CVE-2010-3851)。

=item B<--list-operations>

virt-sysprep プログラムによりサポートされる操作を一覧表示します。

These are listed one per line, with one or more single-space-separated
fields, eg:

 $ virt-sysprep --list-operations
 bash-history * Remove the bash history in the guest
 cron-spool * Remove user at-jobs and cron-jobs
 dhcp-client-state * Remove DHCP client leases
 dhcp-server-state * Remove DHCP server leases
 [etc]

The first field is the operation name, which can be supplied to
I<--enable>.  The second field is a C<*> character if the operation is
enabled by default or blank if not.  Subsequent fields on the same line are
the description of the operation.

Before libguestfs 1.17.33 only the first (operation name) field was shown
and all operations were enabled by default.

=item B<--mount-options> mp:opts[;mp:opts;...]

Set the mount options for each mountpoint in the guest.  Use a
semicolon-separated list of C<mountpoint:options> pairs.  You may need to
quote this list to protect it from the shell.

例:

 --mount-options "/:noatime"

これはルートディレクトリを C<notime> でマウントします。 この例:

 --mount-options "/:noatime;/var:rw,nodiratime"

これは追加で C</var> を C<rw,nodiratime> でマウントすることと同じです。

=item B<-q>

=item B<--quiet>

ログメッセージを表示しません。

To enable detailed logging of individual file operations, use I<-x>.

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

デバッグ用の冗長なメッセージを有効にします。

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

バージョン番号を表示して、終了します。

=item B<-x>

libguestfs API 呼び出しのトレースを有効にします。

__EXTRA_OPTIONS__

=back

=head1 OPERATIONS

If the I<--enable>/I<--operations> option is I<not> given, then most sysprep
operations are enabled.

Use C<virt-sysprep --list-operations> to list all operations for your
virt-sysprep binary.  The ones which are enabled by default are marked with
a C<*> character.  Regardless of the I<--enable>/I<--operations> options,
sysprep operations are skipped for some guest types.

Operations can be individually enabled using the I<--enable>/I<--operations>
options.  Use a comma-separated list, for example:

 virt-sysprep --operations=ssh-hostkeys,udev-persistent-net [etc..]

Future versions of virt-sysprep may add more operations.  If you are using
virt-sysprep and want predictable behaviour, specify only the operations
that you want to have enabled.

C<*> = enabled by default when no I<--enable>/I<--operations> option is
given.

__OPERATIONS__

=head1 コピー方法およびクローン方法

virt-sysprep
は仮想マシンをクローンするプロセスの一部として使用できます。もしくは、クローンされた仮想マシンからテンプレートを準備するために使用できます。仮想化ツールを使用してこれを実現する他の方法がいろいろとあります。このセクションは単に概要を説明します。

仮想マシン（停止状態の場合）は 2 つの部分からなります:

=over 4

=item I<configuration>

仮想マシンの設定または説明。  例: libvirt XML (C<virsh dumpxml> 参照) 、仮想マシンの実行中の設定、または OVF
のような他の外部形式。

いくつかの設定項目は変更する必要があるかもしれません:

=over 4

=item *

名前

=item *

UUID

=item *

ブロックデバイスへのパス

=item *

ネットワークカードの MAC アドレス

=back

=item I<ブロックデバイス>

One or more hard disk images, themselves containing files, directories,
applications, kernels, configuration, etc.

Some things inside the block devices that might need to be changed:

=over 4

=item *

ホスト名および他のネットワーク設定

=item *

UUID

=item *

SSH ホストキー

=item *

Windows の一意なセキュリティ ID (SID)

=item *

Puppet の登録

=back

=back

=head2 ブロックデバイスのコピー法

Starting with an original guest, you probably wish to copy the guest block
device and its configuration to make a template.  Then once you are happy
with the template, you will want to make many clones from it.

                        virt-sysprep
                             |
                             v
 元のゲスト --------> テンプレート ---------->
                                      \------> クローン
                                       \-----> 済みゲスト
                                        \---->

もちろん、ホストにおいて L<cp(1)> または L<dd(1)> を使用してブロックデバイスをコピーできます。

               dd                      dd
 元のゲスト --------> テンプレート ---------->
                                      \------> クローン
                                       \-----> 済みゲスト
                                        \---->

よりスマート（かつ高速）な方法もあります:

                          snapshot
            テンプレート ---------->
                            \------> クローン
                             \-----> 済みゲスト
                              \---->

You may want to run virt-sysprep twice, once to reset the guest (to make a
template) and a second time to customize the guest for a specific user:

                    virt-sysprep        virt-sysprep
                     (リセット)   (ユーザー、キー、ロゴの追加)
                         |                   |
                 dd      v          dd       v
 元の仮想マシン ----> テンプレート ----> コピー済み ------> カスタム
                                        テンプレート       仮想マシン

=over 4

=item *

Create a snapshot using qemu-img:

 qemu-img create -f qcow2 -o backing_file=original snapshot.qcow

The advantage is that you don't need to copy the original (very fast)  and
only changes are stored (less storage required).

Note that writing to the backing file once you have created guests on top of
it is not possible: you will corrupt the guests.

=item *

C<lvcreate --snapshot> を使用してスナップショットを作成します。

=item *

Other ways to create snapshots include using filesystems-level tools (for
filesystems such as btrfs).

Most Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices can also create cheap snapshots
from files or LUNs.

=item *

Get your NAS to duplicate the LUN.  Most NAS devices can also duplicate LUNs
very cheaply (they copy them on-demand in the background).

=item *

L<virt-sparsify(1)> を使用してテンプレートを準備します。以下を参照してください。

=back

=head2 virt-clone

A separate tool, L<virt-clone(1)>, can be used to duplicate the block device
and/or modify the external libvirt configuration of a guest.  It will reset
the name, UUID and MAC address of the guest in the libvirt XML.

L<virt-clone(1)> does not use libguestfs and cannot look inside the disk
image.  This was the original motivation to write virt-sysprep.

=head2 スパース化

          virt-sparsify
 元のゲスト --------> テンプレート

L<virt-sparsify(1)> can be used to make the cloning template smaller, making
it easier to compress and/or faster to copy.

Notice that since virt-sparsify also copies the image, you can use it to
make the initial copy (instead of C<dd>).

=head2 容量変更

                         virt-resize
            テンプレート ---------->
                            \------> クローン
                             \-----> 済みゲスト
                              \---->

If you want to give people cloned guests, but let them pick the size of the
guest themselves (eg. depending on how much they are prepared to pay for
disk space), then instead of copying the template, you can run
L<virt-resize(1)>.  Virt-resize performs a copy and resize, and thus is
ideal for cloning guests from a template.

=head1 FIRSTBOOT VS SCRIPT

The two options I<--firstboot> and I<--script> both supply shell scripts
that are run against the guest.  However these two options are significantly
different.

I<--firstboot script> uploads the file C<script> into the guest and arranges
that it will run, in the guest, when the guest is next booted.  (The script
will only run once, at the "first boot").

I<--script script> runs the shell C<script> I<on the host>, with its current
directory inside the guest filesystem.

If you needed, for example, to C<yum install> new packages, then you I<must
not> use I<--script> for this, since that would (a) run the C<yum> command
on the host and (b) wouldn't have access to the same resources
(repositories, keys, etc.) as the guest.  Any command that needs to run on
the guest I<must> be run via I<--firstboot>.

On the other hand if you need to make adjustments to the guest filesystem
(eg. copying in files), then I<--script> is ideal since (a)  it has access
to the host filesystem and (b) you will get immediate feedback on errors.

Either or both options can be used multiple times on the command line.

=head1 セキュリティ

Although virt-sysprep removes some sensitive information from the guest, it
does not pretend to remove all of it.  You should examine the L</OPERATIONS>
above and the guest afterwards.

Sensitive files are simply removed.  The data they contained may still exist
on the disk, easily recovered with a hex editor or undelete tool.  The
I<--scrub> option can be used to scrub files instead of just deleting them.
L<virt-sparsify(1)> is another way to remove this content.  See also the
L<scrub(1)> command to get rid of deleted content in directory entries and
inodes.

=head2 乱数の種

I<(このセクションは Linux 仮想マシンのみに適用します)>

For supported guests, virt-sysprep writes a few bytes of randomness from the
host into the guest's random seed file.

If this is just done once and the guest is cloned from the same template,
then each guest will start with the same entropy, and things like SSH host
keys and TCP sequence numbers may be predictable.

Therefore you should arrange to add more randomness I<after> cloning from a
template too, which can be done by enabling just the customize module:

 cp template.img newguest.img
 virt-sysprep --enable customize -a newguest.img

=head1 WINDOWS 8

Windows 8 "fast startup" can prevent virt-sysprep from working.  See
L<guestfs(3)/WINDOWS HIBERNATION AND WINDOWS 8 FAST STARTUP>.

=head1 SHELL QUOTING

Libvirt guest names can contain arbitrary characters, some of which have
meaning to the shell such as C<#> and space.  You may need to quote or
escape these characters on the command line.  See the shell manual page
L<sh(1)> for details.

=head1 終了ステータス

このプログラムは、成功すると 0 を返します。または、エラーが起きると 1 を返します。

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-builder(1)>, L<virt-clone(1)>,
L<virt-customize(1)>, L<virt-rescue(1)>, L<virt-resize(1)>,
L<virt-sparsify(1)>, L<virsh(1)>, L<lvcreate(8)>, L<qemu-img(1)>,
L<scrub(1)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>, L<http://libvirt.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

Wanlong Gao, Fujitsu Ltd.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2011-2014 Red Hat Inc.

Copyright (C) 2012 Fujitsu Ltd.

