
=head1 名前

virt-df - 仮想ファイルシステムの使用状況の表示

=head1 書式

すべての仮想マシン:

 virt-df [--options]

単一の仮想マシン:

 virt-df [--options] -d domname

 virt-df [--options] -a disk.img [-a disk.img ...]

古い形式:

 virt-df [--options] domname

 virt-df [--options] disk.img [disk.img ...]

=head1 説明

C<virt-df> is a command line tool to display free space on virtual machine
filesystems.  Unlike other tools, it doesn't just display the size of disk
allocated to a virtual machine, but can look inside disk images to see how
much space is really being used.

If used without any I<-a> or I<-d> arguments, C<virt-df> checks with libvirt
to get a list of all active and inactive guests, and performs a C<df>-type
operation on each one in turn, printing out the results.

If any I<-a> or I<-d> arguments are specified, C<virt-df> performs a
C<df>-type operation on either the single named libvirt domain, or on the
disk image(s) listed on the command line (which must all belong to a single
VM).  B<In this mode (with arguments), C<virt-df> will only work for a
single guest>.  If you want to run on multiple guests, then you have to
invoke C<virt-df> multiple times.

Use the I<--csv> option to get a format which can be easily parsed by other
programs.  Other options are similar to the standard L<df(1)> command.

=head1 例

Show disk usage for a single libvirt guest called C<F14x64>.  Make the
output human-readable:

 # virt-df -d F14x64 -h
 Filesystem                       Size     Used  Available  Use%
 F14x64:/dev/sda1                 484M      66M       393M   14%
 F14x64:/dev/vg_f13x64/lv_root    7.4G     3.4G       4.0G   46%

Show disk usage for a disk image file called F<test.img>:

 $ virt-df -a test1.img
 Filesystem                  1K-blocks     Used  Available  Use%
 test1.img:/dev/sda1             99099     1551      92432    2%

If a single guest has multiple disks, use the I<-a> option repeatedly.  A
plus sign (C<+>) is displayed for each additional disk.  B<Note: Do not do
this with unrelated guest disks.>

 $ virt-df -a Win7x32TwoDisks-a -a Win7x32TwoDisks-b 
 Filesystem                   1K-blocks    Used  Available  Use%
 Win7x32TwoDisks-a+:/dev/sda1    102396   24712      77684   25%
 Win7x32TwoDisks-a+:/dev/sda2  12478460 7403416    5075044   60%
 Win7x32TwoDisks-a+:/dev/sdb1    521212   55728     465484   11%

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<--help>

簡単なヘルプを表示します。

=item B<-a> file

=item B<--add> file

Add I<file> which should be a disk image from a virtual machine.  If the
virtual machine has multiple block devices, you must supply all of them with
separate I<-a> options.

ディスクイメージの形式は自動検知されます。 これを上書きして強制的に特定の形式を使用する場合、 I<--format=..> オプションを使用します。

=item B<-a URI>

=item B<--add URI>

リモートディスクを追加します。 L<guestfish(1)/リモートストレージの追加> 参照。

=item B<-c> URI

=item B<--connect> URI

libvirt を使用していると、指定された I<URI> に接続します。  省略すると、デフォルトの libvirt ハイパーバイザーに接続します。

ゲストのブロックデバイスを直接指定していると（(I<-a>)）、libvirt は何も使用されません。

=item B<--csv>

Write out the results in CSV format (comma-separated values).  This format
can be imported easily into databases and spreadsheets, but read L</NOTE
ABOUT CSV FORMAT> below.

=item B<-d> guest

=item B<--domain> guest

名前付きの libvirt 仮想マシンからすべてのディスクを追加します。  名前の代わりに仮想マシンの UUID を使用できます。

=item B<--format=raw|qcow2|..>

=item B<--format>

I<-a> オプションは標準状態でディスクイメージの形式を自動検知します。 これを使用することにより、コマンドラインで後続の I<-a>
オプションのディスク形式を強制的に指定できます。 引数なしで I<--format> を使用することにより、 後続の I<-a>
オプションに対して自動検知に戻せます。

例:

 virt-df --format=raw -a disk.img

forces raw format (no auto-detection) for F<disk.img>.

 virt-df --format=raw -a disk.img --format -a another.img

forces raw format (no auto-detection) for F<disk.img> and reverts to
auto-detection for F<another.img>.

仮想マシンのディスクイメージが信頼できない raw 形式である場合、 ディスク形式を指定するためにこのオプションを使用すべきです。
これにより、悪意のある仮想マシンにより起こり得る セキュリティ問題を回避できます (CVE-2010-3851)。

=item B<-h>

=item B<--human-readable>

読みやすい形式で容量を表示します。

I<-h> と I<--csv> を同時に使用することはできません。

=item B<-i>

=item B<--inodes>

ブロックの代わりに inode を表示します。

=item B<--one-per-guest>

Since libguestfs 1.22, this is the default.  This option does nothing and is
left here for backwards compatibility with older scripts.

=item B<-P> nr_threads

Since libguestfs 1.22, virt-df is multithreaded and examines guests in
parallel.  By default the number of threads to use is chosen based on the
amount of free memory available at the time that virt-df is started.  You
can force virt-df to use at most C<nr_threads> by using the I<-P> option.

Note that I<-P 0> means to autodetect, and I<-P 1> means to use a single
thread.

=item B<--uuid>

名前の代わりに UUID を表示します。仮想マシンがマイグレーションまたは名前変更されたとき、または偶然 2
つの仮想マシンが同じ名前を持つとき、仮想マシンに使用させるために有用です。

Note that only domains that we fetch from libvirt come with UUIDs.  For disk
images, we still print the disk image name even when this option is
specified.

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

デバッグ用の冗長なメッセージを有効にします。

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

バージョン番号を表示して、終了します。

=item B<-x>

libguestfs API 呼び出しのトレースを有効にします。

=back

=head1 STATVFS NUMBERS

C<virt-df> (and L<df(1)>) get information by issuing a L<statvfs(3)> system
call.  You can get the same information directly, either from the host
(using libguestfs) or inside the guest:

=over 4

=item ホストから

このコマンドを実行してください:

 guestfish --ro -d GuestName -i statvfs /

(change F</> to see stats for other filesystems).

=item 仮想マシンの中から

このコマンドを実行してください:

 python -c 'import os; s = os.statvfs ("/"); print s'

(change F</> to see stats for other filesystems).

=back

=head1 CSV 形式に関する注意

Comma-separated values (CSV) is a deceptive format.  It I<seems> like it
should be easy to parse, but it is definitely not easy to parse.

神話: ただコンマで項目を区切る。 真実: これは正しく動き I<ません>。この例は 2 つの列があります:

 "foo,bar",baz

神話: 同時にファイルの 1 行を読み込みます。 真実: これは正しく動き I<ません>。この例は 1 つの行があります:

 "foo
 bar",baz

For shell scripts, use C<csvtool> (L<http://merjis.com/developers/csv> also
packaged in major Linux distributions).

For other languages, use a CSV processing library (eg. C<Text::CSV> for Perl
or Python's built-in csv library).

Most spreadsheets and databases can import CSV directly.

=head1 終了ステータス

このプログラムは、成功すると 0 を、エラーがあると 0 以外を返します。

=head1 関連項目

L<df(1)>, L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-filesystems(1)>,
L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009-2016 Red Hat Inc.

