=encoding utf8

=head1 名前

virt-filesystems - 仮想マシンまたはディスクイメージにあるファイルシステム、パーティション、ブロックデバイスおよび LVM の一覧表示

=head1 書式

 virt-filesystems [--options] -d domname

 virt-filesystems [--options] -a disk.img [-a disk.img ...]

=head1 説明

This tool allows you to discover filesystems, partitions, logical volumes,
and their sizes in a disk image or virtual machine.  It is a replacement for
L<virt-list-filesystems(1)> and L<virt-list-partitions(1)>.

One use for this tool is from shell scripts to iterate over all filesystems
from a disk image:

 for fs in $(virt-filesystems -a disk.img); do
   # ...
 done

他の使用方法は、これらのパーティションを変更するために (L<virt-resize(1)> のような)
他のツールを使用する前に、パーティションを一覧表示することです。未知のディスクイメージが含んでいるものについてわからなければ、L<virt-inspector(1)>
とともにこのツールを使用します。

さまざまなコマンドラインオプションがこのプログラムが表示するものを制御します。それぞれディスクイメージまたは libvirt 仮想マシンを指定するには
I<-a> または I<-d> オプションを与える必要があります。単にそれを指定すると、見つけたファイルシステムを 1 行ごとに 1
つずつこのように表示します:

 $ virt-filesystems -a disk.img
 /dev/sda1
 /dev/vg_guest/lv_root

If you add I<-l> or I<--long> then the output includes extra information:

 $ virt-filesystems -a disk.img -l
 名前                   種類         VFS   ラベル 容量
 /dev/sda1              filesystem   ext4  boot   524288000
 /dev/vg_guest/lv_root  filesystem   ext4  root   10212081664

I<--extra> を追加すると、マウント不可能な（swap や未知の）ファイルシステムも同様に表示されます:

 $ virt-filesystems -a disk.img --extra
 /dev/sda1
 /dev/vg_guest/lv_root
 /dev/vg_guest/lv_swap
 /dev/vg_guest/lv_data

I<--partitions> を追加すると、ファイルシステムの代わりにパーティションが表示されます:

 $ virt-filesystems -a disk.img --partitions
 /dev/sda1
 /dev/sda2

同様に、それらの項目を一覧表示するには I<--logical-volumes>, I<--volume-groups>,
I<--physical-volumes>, I<--block-devices> を使用できます。

You can use these options in combination as well (if you want a combination
including filesystems, you have to add I<--filesystems>).  Notice that some
items fall into several categories (eg. C</dev/sda1> might be both a
partition and a filesystem).  These items are listed several times.  To get
a list which includes absolutely everything that virt-filesystems knows
about, use the I<--all> option.

UUIDs (because they are quite long) are not shown by default.  Add the
I<--uuid> option to display device and filesystem UUIDs in the long output.

I<--all --long --uuid> is a useful combination to display all possible
information about everything.

 $ virt-filesystems -a win.img --all --long --uuid -h
 Name      Type       VFS  Label           Size Parent   UUID
 /dev/sda1 filesystem ntfs System Reserved 100M -        F81C92571C92112C
 /dev/sda2 filesystem ntfs -               20G  -        F2E8996AE8992E3B
 /dev/sda1 partition  -    -               100M /dev/sda -
 /dev/sda2 partition  -    -               20G  /dev/sda -
 /dev/sda  device     -    -               20G  -        -

マシン読み込み可能な出力のために、カンマ区切り値を取得するために I<--csv> を使用します。

=head1 オプション

=over 4

=item B<--help>

簡単なヘルプを表示します。

=item B<-a> file

=item B<--add> file

Add I<file> which should be a disk image from a virtual machine.  If the
virtual machine has multiple block devices, you must supply all of them with
separate I<-a> options.

ディスクイメージの形式は自動検知されます。これを上書きして強制的に特定の形式を使用するには、I<--format=..> オプションを使用します。

=item B<--all>

すべてを表示します。これは現在これらのオプションを指定するのと同じです: I<--filesystems>, I<--extra>,
I<--partitions>, I<--block-devices>, I<--logical-volumes>,
I<--volume-groups>, I<--physical-volumes>。（将来この一覧にさらに追加されるかもしれません。）

I<--long> 参照。

=item B<--blkdevs>

=item B<--block-devices>

ブロックデバイスを表示します。

=item B<-c> URI

=item B<--connect> URI

libvirt を使用していると、指定された I<URI> に接続します。  省略すると、デフォルトの libvirt ハイパーバイザーに接続します。

ゲストのブロックデバイスを直接指定していると（(I<-a>)）、libvirt は何も使用されません。

=item B<--csv>

Write out the results in CSV format (comma-separated values).  This format
can be imported easily into databases and spreadsheets, but read L</NOTE
ABOUT CSV FORMAT> below.

=item B<-d> guest

=item B<--domain> guest

名前付きの libvirt 仮想マシンからすべてのディスクを追加します。  ドメインの UUID が名前の代わりに使用されます。

=item B<--echo-keys>

When prompting for keys and passphrases, virt-filesystems normally turns
echoing off so you cannot see what you are typing.  If you are not worried
about Tempest attacks and there is no one else in the room you can specify
this flag to see what you are typing.

=item B<--extra>

This causes filesystems that are not ordinary, mountable filesystems to be
displayed.  This category includes swapspace, and filesystems that are empty
or contain unknown data.

このオプションは I<--filesystems> を意味します。

=item B<--filesystems>

Display mountable filesystems.  If no display option was selected then this
option is implied.

I<--extra> を用いると、マウントできないファイルシステムも表示されます。

=item B<--format=raw|qcow2|..>

=item B<--format>

I<-a> オプションのデフォルトはディスクイメージの形式を自動検知します。これを使用することにより、I<-a>
オプションのディスク形式をコマンドラインにおいて指定したものに強制できます。引数なしで I<--format> を使用することにより、後続の I<-a>
オプションに対して自動検知に戻せます。

例:

 virt-filesystems --format=raw -a disk.img

C<disk.img> に対してローイメージを強制します（自動検出しません）。

 virt-filesystems --format=raw -a disk.img --format -a another.img

C<disk.img> に対してロー形式（自動検知なし）を強制し、C<another.img> に対して自動検知に戻します。

仮想マシンのディスクイメージが信頼できないロー形式であるならば、ディスク形式を指定するためにこのオプションを使用すべきです。これにより、悪意のある仮想マシンにより起こり得るセキュリティ問題を回避できます
(CVE-2010-3851)。

=item B<-h>

=item B<--human-readable>

I<--long> モードでは、読みやすい形式で容量を表示します。

=item B<--keys-from-stdin>

Read key or passphrase parameters from stdin.  The default is to try to read
passphrases from the user by opening C</dev/tty>.

=item B<-l>

=item B<--long>

Display extra columns of data ("long format").

A title row is added unless you also specify I<--no-title>.

The extra columns displayed depend on what output you select, and the
ordering of columns may change in future versions.  Use the title row,
I<--csv> output and/or L<csvtool(1)> to match columns to data in external
programs.

Use I<-h> if you want sizes to be displayed in human-readable format.  The
default is to show raw numbers of I<bytes>.

UUID も表示するには I<--uuid> を使用します。

=item B<--lvs>

=item B<--logvols>

=item B<--logical-volumes>

LVM 論理ボリュームを表示します。  このモードでは、論理ボリュームが含むファイルシステムにかかわりなく表示します。

=item B<--no-title>

I<--long> モードでは、見出し行を追加しません。

Note that the order of the columns is not fixed, and may change in future
versions of virt-filesystems, so using this option may give you unexpected
surprises.

=item B<--parts>

=item B<--partitions>

パーティションを表示します。  このモードでは、パーティションが含むファイルシステムにかかわりなく表示します。

=item B<--pvs>

=item B<--physvols>

=item B<--physical-volumes>

LVM 物理ボリュームを表示します。

=item B<--uuid>

=item B<--uuids>

I<--long> モードでは UUID も表示されます。

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

デバッグ用の冗長なメッセージを有効にします。

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

バージョン番号を表示して終了します。

=item B<--vgs>

=item B<--volgroups>

=item B<--volume-groups>

LVM ボリュームグループを表示します。

=item B<-x>

libguestfs API 呼び出しのトレースを有効にします。

=back

=head1 列

出力にある列はこのツールの将来のバージョンにおいて並び替えられる場合や変更される場合があることに注意してください。

=over 4

=item B<名前>

ファイルシステム、パーティション、ブロックデバイスまたは LVM の名前。

For device and partition names these are displayed as canonical libguestfs
names, so that for example C</dev/sda2> is the second partition on the first
device.

I<--long> オプションが指定されてB<いない>と、名前の列のみが出力に表示されます。

=item B<種類>

対象の形式。たとえば、C<filesystem>, C<lv>, C<device> など。

=item B<VFS>

If there is a filesystem, then this column displays the filesystem type if
one could be detected, eg. C<ext4>.

=item B<ラベル>

If the object has a label (used for identifying and mounting filesystems)
then this column contains the label.

=item B<MBR>

The partition type byte, displayed as a two digit hexadecimal number.  A
comprehensive list of partition types can be found here:
L<http://www.win.tue.nl/~aeb/partitions/partition_types-1.html>

これは DOS (MBR) パーティションに対してのみ適用できます。

=item B<容量>

The size of the object in bytes.  If the I<--human> option is used then the
size is displayed in a human-readable form.

=item B<Parent>

親カラムはオブジェクト間の親子関係を記録します。

たとえば、オブジェクトがパーティションならば、このカラムは含んでいるデバイスの名前が含まれます。オブジェクトが論理ボリュームならば、このカラムはボリュームグループの名前です。

If there is more than one parent, then this column is (internal to the
column) a comma-separated list, eg. C</dev/sda,/dev/sdb>.

=item B<UUID>

If the object has a UUID (used for identifying and mounting filesystems and
block devices) then this column contains the UUID as a string.

I<--uuid> オプションが指定されると、 UUID のみが表示されます。

=back

=head1 CSV 形式に関する注意

Comma-separated values (CSV) is a deceptive format.  It I<seems> like it
should be easy to parse, but it is definitely not easy to parse.

Myth: Just split fields at commas.  Reality: This does I<not> work
reliably.  This example has two columns:

 "foo,bar",baz

Myth: Read the file one line at a time.  Reality: This does I<not> work
reliably.  This example has one row:

 "foo
 bar",baz

For shell scripts, use C<csvtool> (L<http://merjis.com/developers/csv> also
packaged in major Linux distributions).

For other languages, use a CSV processing library (eg. C<Text::CSV> for Perl
or Python's built-in csv library).

Most spreadsheets and databases can import CSV directly.

=head1 SHELL QUOTING

Libvirt guest names can contain arbitrary characters, some of which have
meaning to the shell such as C<#> and space.  You may need to quote or
escape these characters on the command line.  See the shell manual page
L<sh(1)> for details.

=head1 終了ステータス

このプログラムは、成功すると 0 を、エラーがあると 0 以外を返します。

=head1 関連項目

L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-cat(1)>, L<virt-df(1)>,
L<virt-list-filesystems(1)>, L<virt-list-partitions(1)>, L<csvtool(1)>,
L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 著者

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Red Hat Inc.

