=encoding utf8

=head1 НАЗВА

guestfs-erlang - How to use libguestfs from Erlang

=head1 КОРОТКИЙ ОПИС

 {ok, G} = guestfs:create(),
 ok = guestfs:add_drive_opts(G, Disk,
                             [{format, "raw"}, {readonly, true}]),
 ok = guestfs:launch(G),
 [Device] = guestfs:list_devices(G),
 ok = guestfs:close(G).

=head1 ОПИС

This manual page documents how to call libguestfs from the Erlang
programming language.  This page just documents the differences from the C
API and gives some examples.  If you are not familiar with using libguestfs,
you also need to read L<guestfs(3)>.

=head2 OPENING AND CLOSING THE HANDLE

The Erlang bindings are implemented using an external program called
C<erl-guestfs>.  This program must be on the current PATH, or else you
should specify the full path to the program:

 {ok, G} = guestfs:create().

 {ok, G} = guestfs:create("/path/to/erl-guestfs").

C<G> is the libguestfs handle which you should pass to other functions.

To close the handle:

 ok = guestfs:close(G).

=head2 FUNCTIONS WITH OPTIONAL ARGUMENTS

For functions that take optional arguments, the first arguments are the
non-optional ones.  The last argument is a list of tuples supplying the
remaining optional arguments.

 ok = guestfs:add_drive_opts(G, Disk,
                             [{format, "raw"}, {readonly, true}]).

If the last argument would be an empty list, you can also omit it:

 ok = guestfs:add_drive_opts(G, Disk).

=head2 RETURN VALUES AND ERRORS

On success, most functions return a C<Result> term (which could be a list,
string, tuple etc.).  If there is nothing for the function to return, then
the atom C<ok> is returned.

On error, you would see one of the following tuples:

=over 4

=item C<{помилка, повідомлення, номер_помилки}>

Позначає звичайну помилку у функції.

C<Msg> is the error message (string) and C<Errno> is the Unix error
(integer).

C<Errno> can be zero.  See L<guestfs(3)/guestfs_last_errno>.

=item C<{unknown, Функція}>

This indicates that the function you called is not known.  Generally this
means you are mixing C<erl-guestfs> from another version of libguestfs,
which you should not do.

C<Функція> — назва невідомої функції.

=item C<{unknownarg, Аргумент}>

This indicates that you called a function with optional arguments, with an
unknown argument name.

C<Аргумент> — назва невідомого аргументу.

=back

=head1 ПРИКЛАД 1. СТВОРЕННЯ ОБРАЗУ ДИСКА

@EXAMPLE1@

=head1 ПРИКЛАД 2. ПЕРЕВІРКА ОБРАЗУ ДИСКА ВІРТУАЛЬНОЇ МАШИНИ

@EXAMPLE2@

=head1 ТАКОЖ ПЕРЕГЛЯНЬТЕ

L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfs-examples(3)>, L<guestfs-java(3)>,
L<guestfs-ocaml(3)>, L<guestfs-perl(3)>, L<guestfs-python(3)>,
L<guestfs-recipes(1)>, L<guestfs-ruby(3)>, L<http://www.erlang.org/>.
L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 АВТОРИ

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 АВТОРСЬКІ ПРАВА

© Red Hat Inc. L<http://libguestfs.org/>, 2011

The examples in this manual page may be freely copied, modified and
distributed without any restrictions.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

Ця бібліотека поширюється у сподіванні, що вона буде корисною, але БЕЗ
БУДЬ-ЯКИХ ГАРАНТІЙНИХ ЗОБОВ’ЯЗАНЬ; навіть без очевидної гарантії
ПРАЦЕЗДАТНОСТІ або ПРИДАТНОСТІ ДЛЯ ВИКОРИСТАННЯ З ПЕВНОЮ МЕТОЮ. Докладніше
про це можна дізнатися з GNU General Public License.

Ви маєте отримати копію GNU Lesser General Public License разом з цією
бібліотекою; якщо це не так, повідомте про факт за адресою Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
USA

