=encoding utf8

=head1 НАЗВА

guestfs-python - How to use libguestfs from Python

=head1 КОРОТКИЙ ОПИС

 import guestfs
 g = guestfs.GuestFS ()
 g.add_drive_opts ("disk.img", format="raw", readonly=1)
 g.launch ()

=head1 ОПИС

This manual page documents how to call libguestfs from the Python
programming language.  This page just documents the differences from the C
API and gives some examples.  If you are not familiar with using libguestfs,
you also need to read L<guestfs(3)>.

=head2 ВИНЯТКИ

Errors from libguestfs functions are mapped into C<RuntimeException> with a
single string argument which is the error message.

=head2 MORE DOCUMENTATION

Тип:

 $ python
 >>> import guestfs
 >>> help (guestfs)

=head1 ПРИКЛАД 1. СТВОРЕННЯ ОБРАЗУ ДИСКА

@EXAMPLE1@

=head1 ПРИКЛАД 2. ПЕРЕВІРКА ОБРАЗУ ДИСКА ВІРТУАЛЬНОЇ МАШИНИ

@EXAMPLE2@

=head1 ТАКОЖ ПЕРЕГЛЯНЬТЕ

L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfs-examples(3)>, L<guestfs-erlang(3)>,
L<guestfs-java(3)>, L<guestfs-ocaml(3)>, L<guestfs-perl(3)>,
L<guestfs-recipes(1)>, L<guestfs-ruby(3)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 АВТОРИ

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 АВТОРСЬКІ ПРАВА

Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat Inc. L<http://libguestfs.org/>

The examples in this manual page may be freely copied, modified and
distributed without any restrictions.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public License
for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

