=encoding utf8

=head1 НАЗВА

libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance - Make a "fixed appliance" for libguestfs

=head1 КОРОТКИЙ ОПИС

 libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance [--параметри] КАТАЛОГ_ВИВЕДЕННЯ

 libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance [--параметри] --xz

=head1 ОПИС

libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance lets you make a pre-built binary appliance
for libguestfs.

B<Note that ordinary users should not need to run this tool>.  The only
reason to use it is if you want to make a self-contained libguestfs
appliance that can be copied to another machine or platform that doesn't
support L<febootstrap(8)>.  To understand why you might need to use this
tool, read the section L</FIXED APPLIANCE> below.

Instead of running this tool, you can download fixed appliances from
L<http://libguestfs.org/download/binaries/appliance/>.  These appliances
were made using this tool.

Передбачено два способи використання цього інструмента.

=over 4

=item *

Вказати каталог виведення даних, приклад:

 libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance /usr/local/lib/guestfs/appliance

Якщо каталогу виведення даних ще не існує, його буде створено. У цьому
каталозі буде створено чотири файли:

 <OUTPUTDIR>/kernel
 <OUTPUTDIR>/initrd
 <OUTPUTDIR>/root
 <OUTPUTDIR>/README.fixed

Note that C<I<OUTPUTDIR>/root> is a sparse file, so take care when copying
it.

You can then run libguestfs (possibly after copying this directory to
another machine) by setting the environment variable LIBGUESTFS_PATH to
C<OUTPUTDIR>.

=item *

The alternative method is to use the I<--xz> option to create a compressed
tarball:

 libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance --xz

Буде створено архів у I<поточному> каталозі з назвою:

 appliance-<ВЕРСІЯ>.tar.xz

(where C<VERSION> is the version of libguestfs).  The tarball contains the
four files:

 appliance/kernel
 appliance/initrd
 appliance/root
 appliance/README.fixed

Note that C<appliance/root> is a sparse file, so take care when copying it.

=back

=head1 ПАРАМЕТРИ

=over 4

=item B<--help>

Показати коротку довідку з користування і завершити роботу.

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

Показати дані щодо версії і завершити роботу.

=item B<--xz>

Instead of creating the appliance in an output directory, create a
compressed tarball of the appliance in the current directory called
C<appliance-I<VERSION>.tar.xz> where C<VERSION> is the version of
libguestfs.

Using I<--xz> can take some time.  If working normally, the tool is
completely silent when it is running.

=back

=head1 FIXED APPLIANCE

When libguestfs (or libguestfs tools) are run, they search a path looking
for an appliance.  The path is built into libguestfs, or can be set using
the C<LIBGUESTFS_PATH> environment variable.

Normally a supermin appliance is located on this path (see
L<febootstrap(8)/SUPERMIN APPLIANCE>).  libguestfs reconstructs this into a
full appliance by running L<febootstrap-supermin-helper(8)>.

However, a simpler "fixed appliance" can also be used.  libguestfs detects
this by looking for a directory on the path containing four files called
C<kernel>, C<initrd>, C<root> and C<README.fixed> (note the C<README.fixed>
file must be present as well).

If the fixed appliance is found, libguestfs skips febootstrap entirely and
just runs qemu with the kernel, initrd and root disk from the fixed
appliance.

Thus the fixed appliance can be used when a platform or Linux distro does
not support febootstrap.  You build the fixed appliance on a platform that
does support febootstrap, and copy it over, and use that to run libguestfs.

=head1 УМОВИ ЛІЦЕНЗУВАННЯ

The fixed appliance is a complete Linux binary distro.  If you distribute
it, you may need to distribute corresponding source files to remain in legal
compliance with the licenses of the software in the appliance (such as the
GNU General Public License).

=head1 СТАН ВИХОДУ

libguestfs-make-fixed-appliance returns I<0> if the appliance was built
without errors.

=head1 ЗМІННІ СЕРЕДОВИЩА

For the full list of environment variables which may affect libguestfs,
please see the L<guestfs(3)> manual page.

=head1 ТАКОЖ ПЕРЕГЛЯНЬТЕ

L<guestfs(3)>, L<febootstrap(8)>, L<febootstrap-supermin-helper(8)>,
L<xz(1)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>, L<http://qemu.org/>.

=head1 АВТОРИ

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 АВТОРСЬКІ ПРАВА

© Red Hat Inc., 2009–2012 L<http://libguestfs.org/>

Ця програма є вільним програмним забезпеченням; ви можете поширювати та/або
змінювати її за умов дотримання GNU General Public License  утому вигляді,
що оприлюднений Free Software Foundation; версії 2 цієї Ліцензії, або (якщо
забажаєте) будь-якої випущеної пізніше.

Ця програма поширюється у сподіванні, що вона буде корисною, але БЕЗ
БУДЬ-ЯКИХ ГАРАНТІЙНИХ ЗОБОВ’ЯЗАНЬ; навіть без очевидної гарантії
ПРАЦЕЗДАТНОСТІ або ПРИДАТНОСТІ ДЛЯ ВИКОРИСТАННЯ З ПЕВНОЮ МЕТОЮ. Докладніше
про це можна дізнатися з GNU General Public License.

Ви маєте отримати копію GNU General Public License разом з цією програмою;
якщо це не так, повідомте про факт за адресою Free Software Foundation,
Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

