=encoding utf8

=head1 НАЗВА

virt-tar-in - Unpack a tarball into a virtual machine disk image.

=head1 КОРОТКИЙ ОПИС

 virt-tar-in -a disk.img data.tar /destination

 virt-tar-in -d domain data.tar /destination

 zcat data.tar.gz | virt-tar-in -d domain - /destination

=head1 ПОПЕРЕДЖЕННЯ

Using C<virt-tar-in> on live virtual machines can be dangerous, potentially
causing disk corruption.  The virtual machine must be shut down before you
use this command.

=head1 ОПИС

C<virt-tar-in> unpacks an uncompressed tarball into a virtual machine disk
image or named libvirt domain.

The first parameter is the tar file.  Use C<-> to read the tar file from
standard input.  The second parameter is the absolute target directory to
unpack into.

=head1 ПРИКЛАДИ

Upload a home directory to a guest:

 virt-tar-in -d MyGuest homes.tar /home

=head1 JUST A SHELL SCRIPT WRAPPER AROUND GUESTFISH

This command is just a simple shell script wrapper around the
L<guestfish(1)> C<tar-in> command.  For anything more complex than a trivial
copy, you are probably better off using guestfish directly.

=head1 ПАРАМЕТРИ

Since the shell script just passes options straight to guestfish, read
L<guestfish(1)> to see the full list of options.

=head1 ТАКОЖ ПЕРЕГЛЯНЬТЕ

L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-cat(1)>, L<virt-copy-in(1)>, L<virt-copy-out(1)>,
L<virt-edit(1)>, L<virt-make-fs(1)>, L<virt-tar-out(1)>,
L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 АВТОРИ

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 АВТОРСЬКІ ПРАВА

Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat Inc.  L<http://libguestfs.org/>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

Ця програма поширюється у сподіванні, що вона буде корисною, але БЕЗ
БУДЬ-ЯКИХ ГАРАНТІЙНИХ ЗОБОВ’ЯЗАНЬ; навіть без очевидної гарантії
ПРАЦЕЗДАТНОСТІ або ПРИДАТНОСТІ ДЛЯ ВИКОРИСТАННЯ З ПЕВНОЮ МЕТОЮ. Докладніше
про це можна дізнатися з GNU General Public License.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

