=encoding utf8

=head1 НАЗВА

virt-copy-out - Copy files and directories out of a virtual machine disk
image.

=head1 КОРОТКИЙ ОПИС

 virt-copy-out -a disk.img /file|dir [/file|dir ...] localdir

 virt-copy-out -d domain /file|dir [/file|dir ...] localdir

=head1 ОПИС

C<virt-copy-out> copies files and directories out of a virtual machine disk
image or named libvirt domain.

You can give one of more filenames and directories on the command line.
Directories are copied out recursively.

=head1 ПРИКЛАДИ

Download the home directories from a virtual machine:

 mkdir homes
 virt-copy-out -d MyGuest /home homes

=head1 JUST A SHELL SCRIPT WRAPPER AROUND GUESTFISH

This command is just a simple shell script wrapper around the
L<guestfish(1)> C<copy-out> command.  For anything more complex than a
trivial copy, you are probably better off using guestfish directly.

=head1 ПАРАМЕТРИ

Since the shell script just passes options straight to guestfish, read
L<guestfish(1)> to see the full list of options.

=head1 ТАКОЖ ПЕРЕГЛЯНЬТЕ

L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-cat(1)>, L<virt-copy-in(1)>, L<virt-edit(1)>,
L<virt-tar-in(1)>, L<virt-tar-out(1)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 АВТОРИ

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 АВТОРСЬКІ ПРАВА

Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat Inc.  L<http://libguestfs.org/>

Ця програма є вільним програмним забезпеченням; ви можете поширювати та/або
змінювати її за умов дотримання GNU General Public License  утому вигляді,
що оприлюднений Free Software Foundation; версії 2 цієї Ліцензії, або (якщо
забажаєте) будь-якої випущеної пізніше.

Ця програма поширюється у сподіванні, що вона буде корисною, але БЕЗ
БУДЬ-ЯКИХ ГАРАНТІЙНИХ ЗОБОВ’ЯЗАНЬ; навіть без очевидної гарантії
ПРАЦЕЗДАТНОСТІ або ПРИДАТНОСТІ ДЛЯ ВИКОРИСТАННЯ З ПЕВНОЮ МЕТОЮ. Докладніше
про це можна дізнатися з GNU General Public License.

Ви маєте отримати копію GNU General Public License разом з цією програмою;
якщо це не так, повідомте про факт за адресою Free Software Foundation,
Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

