=encoding utf8

=head1 НАЗВА

virt-format - Erase and make a blank disk

=head1 КОРОТКИЙ ОПИС

 virt-format [--options] -a disk.img [-a disk.img ...]

=head1 ОПИС

Virt-format takes an existing disk file (or it can be a host partition, LV
etc), B<erases all data on it>, and formats it as a blank disk.  It can
optionally create partition tables, empty filesystems, logical volumes and
more.

To create a disk containing data, you may be better to use
L<virt-make-fs(1)>.  If you are creating a blank disk to use in
L<guestfish(1)>, you should instead use the guestfish I<-N> option.

Normal usage would be something like this:

 virt-format -a disk.qcow

or this:

 virt-format -a /dev/VG/LV

C<disk.qcow> or C</dev/VG/LV> must exist already.  B<Any data on these disks
will be erased by these commands>.  These commands will create a single
empty partition covering the whole disk, with no filesystem inside it.

Additional parameters can be used to control the creation of partitions,
filesystems, etc.  The most commonly used options are:

=over 4

=item I<--filesystem=[ext3|ntfs|vfat|...]>

Create an empty filesystem (C<ext3>, C<ntfs> etc) inside the partition.

=item I<--lvm[=/dev/VG/LV]>

Create a Linux LVM2 logical volume on the disk.  When used with
I<--filesystem>, the filesystem is created inside the LV.

=back

For more information about these and other options, see L</OPTIONS> below.

The format of the disk is normally auto-detected, but you can also force it
by using the I<--format> option (q.v.).  In situations where you do not
trust the existing content of the disk, then it is advisable to use this
option to avoid possible exploits.

=head1 ПАРАМЕТРИ

=over 4

=item B<--help>

Показати коротку довідку.

=item B<-a> файл

=item B<--add> файл

Add I<file>, a disk image, host partition, LV, external USB disk, etc.

The format of the disk image is auto-detected.  To override this and force a
particular format use the I<--format=..> option.

B<Всі поточні дані на диску буде витерто.>

=item B<--filesystem=ext3|ntfs|vfat|...>

Create an empty filesystem of the specified type.  Many filesystem types are
supported by libguestfs.

=item B<--filesystem=none>

Create no filesystem.  This is the default.

=item B<--format=raw|qcow2|..>

=item B<--format>

The default for the I<-a> option is to auto-detect the format of the disk
image.  Using this forces the disk format for I<-a> options which follow on
the command line.  Using I<--format> with no argument switches back to
auto-detection for subsequent I<-a> options.

Приклад:

 virt-format --format=raw -a disk.img

forces raw format (no auto-detection) for C<disk.img>.

 virt-format --format=raw -a disk.img --format -a another.img

forces raw format (no auto-detection) for C<disk.img> and reverts to
auto-detection for C<another.img>.

If you have untrusted raw-format guest disk images, you should use this
option to specify the disk format.  This avoids a possible security problem
with malicious guests (CVE-2010-3851).

=item B<--lvm=/dev/I<VG>/I<LV>>

Create a Linux LVM2 logical volume called C</dev/I<VG>/I<LV>>.  You can
change the name of the volume group and logical volume.

=item B<--lvm>

Create a Linux LVM2 logical volume with the default name (C</dev/VG/LV>).

=item B<--lvm=none>

Create no logical volume.  This is the default.

=item B<--partition>

Create either an MBR or GPT partition covering the whole disk.  MBR is
chosen if the disk size is E<lt> 2 TB, GPT if E<ge> 2 TB.

Типове значення.

=item B<--partition=gpt>

Create a GPT partition.

=item B<--partition=mbr>

Create an MBR partition.

=item B<--partition=none>

Create no partition table.  Note that Windows may not be able to see these
disks.

=item B<-v>

=item B<--verbose>

Увімкнути докладний показ повідомлень з метою діагностики.

=item B<-V>

=item B<--version>

Показати дані щодо версії і завершити роботу.

=item B<--wipe>

Normally virt-format does not wipe data from the disk (because that takes a
long time).  Thus if there is data on the disk, it is only hidden and
partially overwritten by virt-format, and it might be recovered by disk
editing tools.

If you use this option, virt-format writes zeroes over the whole disk so
that previous data is not recoverable.

=item B<-x>

Увімкнути трасування викликів програмного інтерфейсу libguestfs.

=back

=head1 СТАН ВИХОДУ

This program returns C<0> on success, or C<1> on failure.

=head1 ТАКОЖ ПЕРЕГЛЯНЬТЕ

L<guestfs(3)>, L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-filesystems(1)>, L<virt-make-fs(1)>,
L<virt-rescue(1)>, L<virt-resize(1)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 АВТОР

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

=head1 АВТОРСЬКІ ПРАВА

Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat Inc.

Ця програма є вільним програмним забезпеченням; ви можете поширювати та/або
змінювати її за умов дотримання GNU General Public License  утому вигляді,
що оприлюднений Free Software Foundation; версії 2 цієї Ліцензії, або (якщо
забажаєте) будь-якої випущеної пізніше.

Ця програма поширюється у сподіванні, що вона буде корисною, але БЕЗ
БУДЬ-ЯКИХ ГАРАНТІЙНИХ ЗОБОВ’ЯЗАНЬ; навіть без очевидної гарантії
ПРАЦЕЗДАТНОСТІ або ПРИДАТНОСТІ ДЛЯ ВИКОРИСТАННЯ З ПЕВНОЮ МЕТОЮ. Докладніше
про це можна дізнатися з GNU General Public License.

Ви маєте отримати копію GNU General Public License разом з цією програмою;
якщо це не так, повідомте про факт за адресою Free Software Foundation,
Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

