=encoding utf8

=head1 НАЗВА

virt-copy-in - Copy files and directories into a virtual machine disk image.

=head1 КОРОТКИЙ ОПИС

 virt-copy-in -a disk.img file|dir [file|dir ...] /destination

 virt-copy-in -d domain file|dir [file|dir ...] /destination

=head1 ПОПЕРЕДЖЕННЯ

Using C<virt-copy-in> on live virtual machines can be dangerous, potentially
causing disk corruption.  The virtual machine must be shut down before you
use this command.

=head1 ОПИС

C<virt-copy-in> copies files and directories from the local disk into a
virtual machine disk image or named libvirt domain.

You can give one of more filenames and directories on the command line.
Directories are copied in recursively.  The final parameter must be the
destination directory in the disk image which must be an absolute path
starting with a C</> character.

=head1 ПРИКЛАДИ

Update C</etc/resolv.conf> in a guest:

 virt-copy-in -d MyGuest resolv.conf /etc

Upload a home directory to a guest:

 virt-copy-in -d MyGuest skel /home

=head1 JUST A SHELL SCRIPT WRAPPER AROUND GUESTFISH

This command is just a simple shell script wrapper around the
L<guestfish(1)> C<copy-in> command.  For anything more complex than a
trivial copy, you are probably better off using guestfish directly.

=head1 ПАРАМЕТРИ

Since the shell script just passes options straight to guestfish, read
L<guestfish(1)> to see the full list of options.

=head1 ТАКОЖ ПЕРЕГЛЯНЬТЕ

L<guestfish(1)>, L<virt-cat(1)>, L<virt-copy-out(1)>, L<virt-edit(1)>,
L<virt-tar-in(1)>, L<virt-tar-out(1)>, L<http://libguestfs.org/>.

=head1 АВТОРИ

Richard W.M. Jones (C<rjones at redhat dot com>)

=head1 АВТОРСЬКІ ПРАВА

Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat Inc.  L<http://libguestfs.org/>

Ця програма є вільним програмним забезпеченням; ви можете поширювати та/або
змінювати її за умов дотримання GNU General Public License  утому вигляді,
що оприлюднений Free Software Foundation; версії 2 цієї Ліцензії, або (якщо
забажаєте) будь-якої випущеної пізніше.

Ця програма поширюється у сподіванні, що вона буде корисною, але БЕЗ
БУДЬ-ЯКИХ ГАРАНТІЙНИХ ЗОБОВ’ЯЗАНЬ; навіть без очевидної гарантії
ПРАЦЕЗДАТНОСТІ або ПРИДАТНОСТІ ДЛЯ ВИКОРИСТАННЯ З ПЕВНОЮ МЕТОЮ. Докладніше
про це можна дізнатися з GNU General Public License.

Ви маєте отримати копію GNU General Public License разом з цією програмою;
якщо це не так, повідомте про факт за адресою Free Software Foundation,
Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

