
=head1 НАЗВА

virt-v2v-output-local - Using virt-v2v to convert guests to local files or
libvirt

=head1 КОРОТКИЙ ОПИС

 virt-v2v [-i* options] [-o libvirt] -os POOL

 virt-v2v [-i* options] -o local -os DIRECTORY

 virt-v2v [-i* options] -o qemu -os DIRECTORY [--qemu-boot]

 virt-v2v [-i* options] -o null

=head1 ОПИС

This page documents how to use L<virt-v2v(1)> to convert guests to local
files or to a locally running libvirt instance.  There are four output modes
you can select on the virt-v2v command line:

=over 4

=item B<-o libvirt -os> C<POOL>

=item B<-os> C<POOL>

This converts the guest to a libvirt directory pool call C<POOL>, and
instantiates the guest in libvirt (but does not start it running).  See
L</OUTPUT TO LIBVIRT> below.

I<-o libvirt> is the default if no I<-o> option is given, so you can omit
it.

=item B<-o local -os> C<DIRECTORY>

This converts the guest to files in C<DIRECTORY>.  A libvirt XML file is
also created, but unlike I<-o libvirt> the guest is not instantiated in
libvirt, only files are created.

The files will be called:

 NAME-sda, NAME-sdb, etc.      Guest disk(s).
 NAME.xml                      Libvirt XML.

where C<NAME> is the guest name.

=item B<-o qemu -os> C<DIRECTORY>

=item B<-o qemu -os> C<DIRECTORY> B<--qemu-boot>

This converts the guest to files in C<DIRECTORY>.  Unlike I<-o local> above,
a shell script is created which contains the raw qemu command you would need
to boot the guest.  However the shell script is not run, I<unless> you also
add the I<--qemu-boot> option.

=item B<-o null>

The guest is converted, but the final result is thrown away and no metadata
is created.  This is mainly useful for testing.

=back

=head1 ВИВЕДЕННЯ ДО LIBVIRT

За допомогою параметра I<-o libvirt> ви можете вивантажувати перетворені
гостьові системи на основу систему під керуванням libvirt. Існує декілька
обмежень:

=over 4

=item *

Ви можете використовувати лише локальне з'єднання libvirt [див. нижче
способи обійти це обмеження].

=item *

Параметр I<-os pool> має вказувати на буфер-каталог, а не щось екзотичніше,
наприклад iSCSI [втім, див. нижче].

=item *

Вивантаження можливе лише до гіпервізору KVM.

=back

=head2 Workaround for output to a remote libvirt instance and/or a non-directory
storage pool

=over 4

=item 1.

Скористайтеся virt-v2v у режимі I<-o local> для перетворення дисків і
метаданих гостьової системи до локального тимчасового каталогу:

 virt-v2v [...] -o local -os /var/tmp

Ця команда створює два (або більше) файли у F</var/tmp> із такими назвами:

 /var/tmp/НАЗВА.xml     # XML libvirt (метадані)
 /var/tmp/НАЗВА-sda     # перший диск гостьової системи

(замість слова C<НАЗВА> має бути назва гостьової системи).

=item 2.

Вивантаження перетворених дисків до буфера сховища із назвою C<POOL>:

 size=$(stat -c%s /var/tmp/НАЗВА-sda)
 virsh vol-create-as POOL НАЗВА-sda $size --format raw
 virsh vol-upload --pool POOL НАЗВА-sda /var/tmp/НАЗВА-sda

=item 3.

Внесіть зміни до F</var/tmp/НАЗВА.xml>, щоб замінити F</var/tmp/НАЗВА-sda>
на назву буфера. Іншими словами, знайдіть такий фрагмент у XML:

 <disk type='file' device='disk'>
   <driver name='qemu' type='raw' cache='none' />
   <source file='/var/tmp/NAME-sda' />
   <target dev='hda' bus='ide' />
 </disk>

і змініть дві речі: атрибут C<type='file'> слід замінити на
C<type='volume'>, а елемент C<E<lt>sourceE<gt>> слід змінити так, щоб у
ньому були атрибути C<pool> і C<volume>:

 <disk type='volume' device='disk'>
   ...
   <source pool='POOL' volume='NAME-sda' />
   ...
 </disk>

=item 4.

Визначте остаточну гостьову систему у libvirt:

 virsh define /var/tmp/NAME.xml

=back

=head1 ТАКОЖ ПЕРЕГЛЯНЬТЕ

L<virt-v2v(1)>.

=head1 АВТОР

Richard W.M. Jones

=head1 АВТОРСЬКІ ПРАВА

Copyright (C) 2009-2019 Red Hat Inc.

